Law No: 45/2013/QH13
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM Independence
- Freedom - Happiness
CONGRESS
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 3
2. Land users.
GENERAL RULES
3. Land use plan means the division of land use planning over time for implementation
in the land use planning period.
4. Cadastral map is a map showing land parcels and related geographical factors,
made according to the administrative units of communes, wards and townships, certified
by competent state agencies.
3. Other subjects related to the management and use of land. Article
3. Interpretation of terms
Article 1. Governing scope
This Law prescribes the land ownership regime, the powers and responsibilities of the
State to represent the all-people owner of land and to uniformly manage the land and regimes.
5. Current land use map is a map showing the distribution of land types at a specified
time, made according to each administrative unit.
In this Law, the following terms are construed as follows: 1.
A parcel of land is an area of land that is bounded by a boundary determined on the
ground or described in the records.
management and use of land, rights and obligations of land users with respect to land in
the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Article 2. Subjects of
application 1. State agencies
exercising the power and responsibility to represent the entire owner
Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; The National
Assembly promulgates the Law on Land.
2. Land use planning is the allocation and zoning of land according to space for use
for the purposes of socio-economic development, national defense, security, environmental
protection and climate change adaptation. on the basis of land potential and land use
demand of sectors and fields for each socio-economic region and administrative unit in a
defined period of time.
people on land, perform the task of unified state management of land.
Chapter I
LAW
of the Land
Machine Translated by Google
4 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
17. Land statistics mean the State's compilation and assessment on cadastral records about the
current land use status at the time of statistics and the land change situation between two censuses.
15. Registration of land, houses and other land-attached assets means the declaration and
recording of the legal status of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets
and management rights. land management for a parcel of land in the cadastral records.
9. The State's recognition of land use rights is the granting of land use rights by the State
Land use rights for people who are using land on a stable basis without having a source of land
allocated or leased by the State through the issuance of certificates of land use rights and ownership
of houses and other land-attached assets for the first time. for a specified parcel of land.
16. A certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets is a
legal document for the State to certify land use rights and ownership of houses and other assets
attached to land. the legal land of the person who has the right to use it
13. Remaining land investment costs include ground leveling costs and other directly related
costs with grounds to prove that the investment in land has not been recovered by the time the State
recovers the land. .
7. State allocation of land use rights (hereinafter referred to as land allocation by the State)
means the issuance of a decision on land allocation by the State in order to grant land use rights to
subjects who have land use needs.
14. Support when the State recovers land is the State's assistance to people who have land
8. Land use right lease by the State (hereinafter referred to as land lease by the State) means
the State's decision to hand over land use rights to an entity that wishes to use land through a land
use right lease contract. land.
recovered land to stabilize life, production and development.
use land in violation of the law on land.
6. Land use planning map is the map made at the beginning of the planning period
18. Land inventory means that the State organizes an investigation, synthesis, and assessment
based on cadastral records and in the field about the current land use status at the time of inventory
and the land change situation between two times. inventory.
12. Land compensation means the return of the value of land use rights to the recovered land
area by the State to the land user.
plan, showing the allocation of land types at the end of that planning period.
10. Transfer of land use rights means the transfer of land use rights from one person to another
through the forms of exchange, assignment, inheritance, donation of land use rights and capital
contribution with land use rights.
land use rights, house ownership and ownership of other land-attached assets.
11. Land recovery by the State means the State's decision to recover the land use rights of the
person to whom the State grants the land use right or the land of the user.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 5
Article 4. Land ownership
Land is owned by the entire people and is managed uniformly by the State on behalf of the
owner. The State grants land use rights to land users in accordance with this Law. Article 5. Land
users
Land users who are allocated,
leased or recognized by the State with land use rights
22. Land information system is a system that synthesizes information technology technical
infrastructure elements, software, data and processes and procedures built to collect, store, update
and process management, analysis, synthesis and retrieval of land information.
23. Land database is a collection of arranged and organized land data
use land, receive the transfer of land use rights according to the provisions of this Law, including:
27. Economic organizations include enterprises, cooperatives and other economic organizations
as prescribed by civil law, except foreign-invested enterprises. 28. Land for construction of
underground works is the land for construction of underground works which are not underground
parts of above-ground constructions.
21. Land use levy is the amount of money that a land user must pay to the State when the State
allocates land with the collection of land use levy or permits the change of land use purpose.
29. Households using land are those who are related by marriage, blood and rearing according
to the provisions of the law on marriage and family, are living together and have the right to use the
common land at the time of acquisition by the State. land allocation, land lease, recognition of land
use rights; transfer of land use rights.
land use and recognition of land use rights.
30. Households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural production mean households
and individuals that have been assigned, leased or recognized by the State with the right to use
agricultural land; receive the right to use agricultural land and have a stable income from agricultural
production on that land.
25. Destruction of land means an act of deforming the topography, degrading the quality of the
land, polluting the land, losing or reducing the ability to use the land for the defined purpose.
19. Land price is the value of land use rights calculated per unit area of land.
20. Value of land use rights is the monetary value of land use rights over a definite land area
within a definite land use term.
26. Public non-business organization is an organization established by a competent state
agency, political organization, or socio-political organization and has the function of performing public
service activities according to regulations. under the law.
to access, exploit, manage and update through electronic means.
24. Land dispute means a dispute over the rights and obligations of land users between two or
more parties in the land relationship.
Machine Translated by Google
6 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
religion.
2. Chairpersons of People's Committees of communes, wards and townships, for the use of agricultural
land for public purposes; non-agricultural land allocated to the People's Committees of communes, wards and
townships (hereinafter collectively referred to as the People's Committees of communes) for use for the purpose
of building the headquarters of the People's Committee, public works serving cultural, educational, medical,
physical training and sports activities, amusement and entertainment, markets, cemeteries, graveyards and
other local public works.
4. Religious establishments include pagodas, churches, chapels, holy houses, sanctuaries, Buddhist
recitation halls, monasteries, religious training schools, headquarters of religious organizations and other
religious establishments. .
5. Foreign organizations with diplomatic functions include diplomatic missions, consular offices and other
foreign representative offices with diplomatic functions recognized by the Vietnamese Government;
representative agency of an organization under the United Nations, an intergovernmental agency or
organization, a representative agency of an intergovernmental organization.
3. The representative of the population community is the head of the village, village, hamlet, hamlet,
village, village, Phum, squirrel, residential group, or the person appointed by the population community to the
use of the allocated land or public works. received for the community.
3. Land users exercise their rights and perform their obligations within the use term
2. Domestic households and individuals (hereinafter collectively referred to as households and individuals).
land in accordance with this Law and other relevant laws.
3. Residential community includes the Vietnamese community living in the same village, village, hamlet,
hamlet, hamlet, phum, squirrel, residential group and similar residential area with the same customs or habits
or having common lineage.
Article 7. Persons responsible before the State for the use of land 1. Heads of organizations,
foreign organizations with diplomatic functions, foreign-invested enterprises for the use of land by the
State organize yourself.
Foreign investors buy shares, merge or repurchase according to the provisions of the law on investment.
Article 6. Principles of land use 1. To
comply with the master plans and plans on land use and for the right purposes of land use.
1. Domestic organizations include state agencies, units of the people's armed forces, political organizations,
socio-political organizations, economic organizations, and socio-political-professional organizations.
professional organizations, social organizations, socio-professional organizations, public non-business
organizations and other organizations as prescribed by civil law (hereinafter collectively referred to as organizations).
2. Save, be effective, protect the environment and do not harm the legitimate interests of the surrounding
land users.
6. Vietnamese residing abroad in accordance with the law on nationality.
4. The head of a religious establishment for the use of the land assigned to the establishment
7. Foreign-invested enterprises include 100% foreign-invested enterprises, joint-venture enterprises and
Vietnamese enterprises in which the investor
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 7
uncultivated water surface to use according to master plans and plans on land use.
Article 9. Encouragement of investment in land The
State has policies to encourage land users to invest in labor and materials
Article 8. Persons responsible before the State for the land allocated to
manage
investment, capital and application of scientific and technological achievements to the following:
1. Protecting, renovating and increasing the fertility of the soil.
3. The presidents of the People's Committees of the provinces and centrally-run cities are responsible
for the management of unused land in the local uninhabited islands.
7. People who share land use rights or representatives of groups of people with land use rights
4. The representative of the residential community is the person responsible for the land
common land use rights for that land use.
assigned to the residential community to manage.
in the form of build-transfer (BT) and other forms as prescribed by the law on investment; c) Organizations
assigned to manage land with
water surface of rivers and land with specialized water surface; d) The organization assigned to
manage the
recovered land fund under a decision of a competent state agency.
3. Develop infrastructure to increase the value of land. Article 10.
Land classification Based
on the purpose of use, land is classified as follows: 1. The agricultural land
group includes the following types of land: a) Land for annual crops,
including land for rice cultivation and land for cultivation. other annuals;
5. Household head for the household's land use.
6. Individuals and Vietnamese residing overseas for the use of their land.
2. Chairpersons of commune-level People's Committees shall be responsible for the management of
land used for public purposes assigned for management, unallocated land, and land not yet leased in the
locality.
1. The head of an organization is responsible for the management of land in the following cases: a)
The organization is assigned
to manage public works, including roads, bridges, culverts and sidewalks. , water supply system,
water drainage system, system of irrigation works, dikes, dams; squares, monuments, memorials;
2. Reclaiming, restoring, encroaching on the sea, bringing the area of bare land, bare hills, and land
b) Economic organizations assigned to manage the land area for the implementation of investment projects
Machine Translated by Google
8 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Karma; land for construction of cultural, social, medical, educational and training facilities, physical training
dd) Non-agricultural production and business land, including land in industrial parks, industrial
clusters, and export processing zones; commercial and service land; land for non-agricultural production
establishments; land used for mineral activities; land for production of building materials and pottery; e)
Land used
for public purposes, including land for traffic (including airports, airfields, inland waterway ports,
seaports, railway systems,
b) Land for planting perennial
crops; c) Production forest
land; d) Protection forest
land; dd) Special-use forest
land; e) Land for aquaculture; g)
Land for salt
production; h) Other agricultural land, including land used for construction of greenhouses and other
types of houses for cultivation purposes, including forms of cultivation not directly on the land; building
barns for raising cattle, poultry and other animals permitted by law; land for cultivation, animal husbandry
and aquaculture for the purpose of study, research and experiment; nursery land for seedlings, seedlings
and land for planting flowers and ornamental plants; 2. Non-agricultural land group includes the following
types of land: a)
Residential land includes residential land in rural areas and residential land
in urban areas; b) Land for construction of the agency's
headquarters; c) Land used for defense
and security purposes; d) Land for construction of non-business
works, including land for building the head office of the event organization
sports, science and technology, diplomacy and other non-business works;
road system and other traffic works); irrigation; land with historical - cultural relics and scenic spots; land
for community activities, public amusement and entertainment areas; land for energy works; land for post
and telecommunications works; market land; land for disposal, waste treatment and other public works; g)
Land for religious and belief establishments; h) Land for cemeteries,
graveyards, funeral homes, crematoriums;
i) Land of rivers, streams, canals, canals, streams and specialized water
surface; k) Other non-agricultural land, including land for rest houses, shacks
and camps for workers in production establishments; land for construction of warehouses and houses
to store agricultural products, pesticides, fertilizers, machinery and tools in service of agricultural production
and land for other construction works of land users for non-business purposes that the work is not attached
to residential land; 3. Unused land group includes types of land for which the purpose of use has not been
determined.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 9
according to regulations of the Law.
Article 13. Rights of the representative of the land owner 1.
To decide on land use planning, land use plan.
8. Abusing positions and powers to violate regulations on land management.
2. Violations against announced master plans or plans on land use.
3. Do not use land or use land for improper purposes.
9. Failing to provide or provide inaccurate land information as prescribed by law.
with the competent state agency.
3. A competent state agency's decision on land allocation, land lease or permission to change
the land use purpose, for cases where the Certificate has not been issued yet as prescribed in
Clause 1 of this Article. 4. In case of no papers
specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of Article
Section 1
7. Failure to perform or incomplete performance of financial obligations for
In this case, the determination of land type shall comply with the Government's
regulations. Article 12. Prohibited acts 1.
Encroachment, occupation or destruction of land.
Government.
families and individuals in accordance with this Law.
chapter II
STATE RIGHTS TO LAND
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE STATE TO LAND
Article 11. Grounds for determining land
type The determination of land type is based on one of the following
bases: 1. The certificate of land use right, the certificate of house ownership and the right to
use residential land has been approved. issued before December 10, 2009; Certificate of land use
rights, ownership of houses and other assets attached to land.
2. Papers on land use rights specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3, Article 100 of this Law, for cases
where the Certificate has not been granted as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
6. Using land, performing transactions on land use rights without registration
4. Failing to comply with the provisions of law when exercising the rights of land users.
10. Obstructing or causing difficulties to the exercise of land users' rights
5. Receive transfer of agricultural land use right over the limit for households
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 ten
2. To decide to lease land with annual rental payment, and to lease land with payment
6. Decide to grant land use rights to land users.
7. To decide on financial policies on land.
lease land once for the entire lease period.
2. The State decides to requisition land in cases where it is absolutely necessary to
4. To decide on land recovery and land requisition.
performing national defense and security tasks or in a state of war, emergency, natural disaster
prevention and control. Article 17. The State
grants land use rights to land users The State grants land use rights to land
users through the following forms: 1. To decide on land allocation without collection of land
use levy
or land allocation. have a history
5. Decide on land prices.
land use.
2. The State shall prescribe the land use term in the following forms: a) Stable
and long term use of land; b) Using
land for a definite term. Article
16.- The State decides to recover land and requisition land 1. The
State shall decide to recover land in the following cases: a) Land is
recovered for national defense and security purposes; Socio-economic development for
2. Decide on land use purposes.
3. To prescribe land use quotas and land use term.
national and public interests; b)
Land recovery due to violations of the law on land; c)
Land recovery due to termination of land use in accordance with law, voluntary return of
land, risk of endangering human life.
8. Regulations on rights and obligations of land users. Article
14.- The State decides on the land use purposes The State
decides on the land use purposes through the land use planning, the land use plan and
permits the change of the land use purpose.
3. Recognition of land use rights.
Article 15.- The State prescribes land use quotas and land use term residential land
and quotas for transfer of agricultural land use rights.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 11
6. Management of compensation, support and resettlement upon land recovery.
land use planning; investigation and assessment of land resources; survey construction land prices.
Article 21. Exercising the right to represent land owners 1. The National
Assembly promulgates laws and resolutions on land; planning decisions, plans
national land use plan; exercise supreme supervision over the management and use of land throughout the
country.
4. Management of master plans and plans on land use.
Article 22. Contents of state management of land 1. To
promulgate legal documents on land management and use and organize the implementation of such
documents.
2. The State regulates the value added from land that is not brought by the investment of the land user
through tax policy, land use levy, land rent, infrastructure investment and support policy. support for people
whose land is recovered.
2. Determining administrative boundaries, making and managing administrative boundary dossiers, and
making administrative maps.
Article 20. The State prescribes the rights and obligations of land users The State prescribes
the rights and obligations of land users in accordance with the form of land allocation, land lease, recognition
of land use rights and origin. land use and financial obligations of land users.
3. Surveying, measuring, making cadastral maps, current land use maps and maps
Section 2
Article 18. The State determines land prices 1. The
State prescribes principles and methods of land pricing.
2. The State promulgates the land price bracket, land price list and decides on specific land prices. Article
19. The
State decides on the financial policies on land 1. The State decides on the policies
on financial revenue and expenditure on land.
THE STATE'S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR LAND
2. People's Councils at all levels exercise the right to approve master plans and plans on land use in their
respective localities before submitting them to competent agencies for approval; approve the land price list, the
land recovery for implementation of socio-economic development projects for the national and local public
interest according to the competence prescribed in this Law; supervise the enforcement of land laws in the
locality.
5. Management of land allocation, land lease, land recovery, change of land use purpose.
3. The Government and People's Committees at all levels shall exercise the right to represent the land
owner according to the competence prescribed in this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
twelfth NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
land is established and operated in accordance with the Government's regulations.
Article 25. Cadastral civil servants in communes, wards and townships
1. Communes, wards and townships have civil servants performing cadastral work according to the provisions
of the Law on Cadres and Civil servants.
3. People's Committees at all levels are responsible for the state management of land in their
localities according to their competence prescribed in this
Law. Article 24. Land management
agencies 1. The organizational system of land management agencies is uniformly organized
from central to local levels.
11. Manage and supervise the exercise of rights and obligations of land users.
12. Inspect, examine, supervise, monitor and evaluate the observance of the provisions of the
law on land and handle violations of the law on land.
2. The central state management agency for land is the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environment.
unified state management of land.
9. Building a land information system.
land use.
I have the responsibility to assist the Government in the state management of land.
10. Financial management of land and land prices.
Relevant ministries and ministerial-level agencies within the scope of tasks and powers of
15. Management of land service activities. Article
23. Responsibility for state management of land 1. The
Government shall perform the unified state management of land throughout the country.
2. Cadastral officers in communes, wards and townships shall have to assist the commune-level
People's Committees in the management of land in the locality.
Article 26. State guarantees for land users 1. Protection of land users'
lawful land use rights and land-attached assets
7. Land registration, making and managing cadastral records, granting certificates of land use
rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets.
8. Statistics, land inventory.
2. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible before the Government for
13. Disseminate and educate the law on land.
Local land management agencies shall be established in provinces and centrally run cities and
in rural districts, urban districts, towns and provincial cities; public service organization about
14. Settlement of disputes over land; settlement of complaints and denunciations in land
management and use.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 13
Chapter III
ADMINISTRATIVE GEOGRAPHY AND BASIC SURVEY OF LAND
for ethnic minorities
1. To adopt policies on residential land and land for community activities for ethnic minorities in
accordance with customs, practices, cultural identity and actual conditions.
Section
1. SMALL ADMINISTRATIVE LOCATIONS
land for organizations and individuals affected by their legitimate rights and interests.
4. To adopt policies to create conditions for people directly engaged in agricultural, forestry,
aquaculture, and salt production to have no production land due to the transformation of land use
structure and economic restructuring. vocational training, job change and job search.
3. Notification of administrative decisions and administrative acts in the field of management
5. The State does not recognize the reclaim of land that has been allocated according to the
State's regulations for other people to use in the course of implementing the land policy of the State of
the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government. Republic of South
Vietnam and the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Article 27.
Responsibilities of the State for residential land and agricultural production land
4. State agencies and persons competent in land management and use are responsible for
facilitating and providing information on land to organizations and individuals in accordance with law.
2. Timely and publicly announce information under the land information system to the organization
2. Grant certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets to
land users when fully meeting the conditions prescribed by law.
3. When the State recovers land for national defense and security purposes; For socio-economic
development for national and public interests, land users shall be compensated, supported and resettled
by the State in accordance with law.
organizations and individuals, except for confidential information as prescribed by law.
of each region.
Article 29. Administrative boundaries
2. To adopt policies to create conditions for ethnic minorities who directly engage in agricultural
production in rural areas to have land for agricultural production.
Article 28. Responsibilities of the State in building and providing land information 1. Building
and
managing the land information system and ensuring the access rights of organizations and
individuals to the information system land.
Machine Translated by Google
14 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, land management agencies of provinces, centrally run
cities, districts, towns, provincial cities are responsible for providing necessary documents and coordinating with
state agencies. competent country to settle administrative boundary disputes. Article 30. Administrative maps 1.
Administrative maps of any locality shall be made
on the basis of local maps
a) In the case of a dispute related to the geographical boundaries of a provincial administrative unit,
in the field and make records on administrative boundaries within the locality.
Commune-level People's Committees are responsible for managing administrative boundary markers in the
field in the locality; In case administrative boundary markers are lost, moved or damaged, they must promptly report
them to the People's Committees of districts, towns and cities.
centrally run cities, the Government shall submit them to the National Assembly for decision;
Records of administrative boundaries at any level shall be archived at the People's Committee of that level and
The Minister of Home Affairs shall prescribe the order and procedures for determining administrative
boundaries, managing boundary markers and administrative boundary dossiers at all levels.
Superior People's Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall provide technical regulations and economic-technical
norms in setting administrative boundary markers and making administrative boundary dossiers at all levels. 2.
People's Committees
at all levels organize the determination of administrative boundaries
4. Disputes over administrative boundaries between administrative units shall be jointly resolved by the
People's Committees of those administrative units. In case there is no consensus on the delimitation of administrative
boundaries or the settlement changes the administrative boundaries, the settlement competence is prescribed as
follows:
Subordinate administrative boundary dossiers certified by the immediate superior People's Committees;
administrative boundary dossiers of provinces and centrally run cities, prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs
administration of that locality.
2. The making of administrative maps shall comply with the following provisions:
1. The Government shall direct the determination of administrative boundaries, making and managing dossiers
administrative boundaries at all levels throughout the country.
confirm.
province (hereinafter referred to as district-level People's Committee).
b) In case of dispute related to the boundary of the administrative unit of the district, urban district, town or
provincial city; communes, wards and townships, the Government shall submit them to the National Assembly
Standing Committee for decision.
3. Administrative boundary dossiers include paper and digital documents showing information on the
establishment and adjustment of administrative units and landmarks and boundaries of that administrative unit.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 15
Section
2. BASIC LAND SURVEY
4. Provincial-level People's Committees shall organize the formulation, adjustment and management of villages
land use, reporting on land prices and land price fluctuations.
Article 31. Cadastral map making and correction
1. The cadastral measurement and mapping is carried out in detail to each land parcel according to
the administrative unit of communes, wards and townships.
Article 33. Organization of land survey and assessment 1. The
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment has the following responsibilities:
local cadastral map. Article 32.
Land survey and assessment activities 1. Land survey
and assessment includes the following activities: a) Investigation and
assessment of land quality and land potential; b) Investigate and evaluate
land degradation and land pollution; c) Investigate and
classify agricultural land; d) Statistics and inventory
of land; dd) Investigation and statistics
of land prices; monitor land price fluctuations; e) Build and maintain the
land resource monitoring system. 2. Land survey and assessment includes the
following contents: a) Sampling, analysis and statistics of land monitoring
data; b) Develop maps on land quality, land potential, land degradation,
land pollution, agricultural land classification, land price; c) Prepare an assessment report on land
quality, land potential and degradation
2. The correction of the cadastral map is carried out when there is a change in the shape, size, area
of the land plot and other factors related to the contents of the cadastral map.
land, land pollution, agricultural land classification, land price;
3. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall prescribe the formulation, regulation and management
a) The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment shall direct and guide the making of
administrative maps at all levels nationwide and organize the making of administrative maps of the whole
country, provinces and centrally run cities; b) People's Committees of
provinces and centrally run cities (hereinafter referred to as provincial People's Committees) organize
the making of administrative maps of districts, urban districts, towns and provincial cities.
d) Prepare statistical reports, land inventory, map the current state of land use
cadastral maps in the whole country; conditions for practicing cadastral surveying.
Machine Translated by Google
16 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Announce the results of annual land statistics, the results of 5-year land inventory of the whole country.
2. Periodical land statistics and inventory shall be made according to the following provisions: a) Land
statistics and inventory shall be carried out by administrative units of communes, wards and townships; b) The
land inventory shall be
conducted once a year, except for the year in which the land inventory is carried out; c) The land inventory is
conducted every 5
years.
3. The current land use map is made every 5 years in association with the inspection
6. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall detail the statistics and inventory of land, and
mapping of the current state of land use.
a) The People's Committees at all levels shall organize the statistics and inventory of land, and map the current
state of land use in the locality; b) The People's Committee of
commune and district shall report to the People's Committee of the immediate superior; Provincial People's
Committees report the results to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
and conditions on capacity of units conducting land survey and assessment.
make statistics and inventory of land, map out the current land use status of the locality;
Article 34.- Land statistics and inventory, making maps of the current state of land use 1. Land
statistics and inventory include statistics, periodic land inventory and thematic land inventory.
c) The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security shall assume the prime responsibility for, and
coordinate with the provincial-level People's Committees in, making statistics and inventory of land for defense and security and
sending reports on the results to the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environment. ; d) The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment shall summarize and report to the Prime Minister and the public
5. Responsibility for making statistics and inventory of land, mapping the current status
a) Organize the implementation and announcement of results of land survey and assessment of the whole
country and regions once every 5 years and by topic; b) Direct the implementation
of land survey and assessment of provinces and centrally run cities; c) Synthesize and announce the results of
land survey and
assessment of the whole country. 2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall organize the
implementation and announcement of results of land survey and assessment in their localities; send the results
to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment for synthesis.
3. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall prescribe the investigation and assessment of land
Land use is regulated as follows:
list of land specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
4. Thematic land inventory to serve state management requirements shall comply with decisions of the Prime
Minister and the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 17
Article 37. Land use planning period and plan 1. Land
use planning period is 10 years.
4. Reasonable exploitation of natural resources and environmental protection; adapt to climate
change.
5. Protection and embellishment of historical - cultural relics and scenic spots.
2. The national and provincial land use planning period and the land use planning period for
defense and security land are 05 years. District land use plans are prepared annually. Article 38.
National-level
master plans and plans on land use 1. Bases for elaboration of
national-level master plans on land use include: a) Strategy for socioeconomic development, national defense and security ; master plan on development of socioeconomic regions; strategies and planning for development of sectors and fields;
3. District-level land use plannings and plans.
Article 35. Principles of making master plans and plans on land use
1. To be consistent with strategies, master plans, plans for socio-economic development,
national defense and security. 2.
Prepared from the general to the detailed; the land use planning of the lower level must be
consistent with the master plan on land use; the land use plan must be consistent with the land use
planning approved by the competent state agency. The national land use planning must ensure the
specificity and linkage of socio-economic regions; the district-level land use planning must show the
land use content of the commune level.
4. National defense land use planning and plans.
3. Use land economically and effectively.
5. Security land use planning and plans.
8. Master plans and plans of sectors, fields and localities that use land must be consistent with
master plans and plans on land use already decided and approved by competent state agencies.
Article 36. System of master plans and
plans on land use 1. National master plans and plans on land use.
Chapter IV
LAND USE PLANNING AND PLAN
2. Provincial-level master plans and plans on land use.
6. Democracy and openness.
7. Prioritize the land fund for defense and security purposes, serving national and public interests,
food security and environmental protection.
Machine Translated by Google
18 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
planning to each provincial administrative unit and socio-economic region;
3. Bases for formulation of national-level land use plans include:
a) National-level land use planning; b) Fiveyear and annual socio-economic development plans of the whole country; c) Fiveyear land use demand of sectors and fields; d) Results of
implementation of the national land use plan in the previous period; dd)
Ability to invest and mobilize resources to implement the land use plan.
2. Contents of national-level land use planning include: a) 10-year
land use orientation; b) Determination
of land use norms for agricultural land, non-agricultural land and unused land; in which
the area of a number of land types, including land for rice cultivation, land for specializing in
wet rice cultivation, protection forest land, special-use forest land, production forest land,
aquaculture land, salt-making land, defense land, is determined. security land, industrial park
land, export processing zone land, high-tech zone land, economic zone land, national-level
infrastructure development land, land with historical-cultural relics, scenic spots, land urban
and land landfill, waste treatment; c) Determine the
area of land types specified at point b of this clause of the period
d) Making maps of national land use planning and socio-economic regions; d) Solutions
for the
implementation of land use planning.
4. Contents of the national land use plan include: a) Analysis
and assessment of the results of the implementation of the national land use plan in the
previous
period; b) Determine the area of the types of land specified at Point b, Clause 2 of this
Article in the five-year land use plan
period; c) Five-year land use plan for each provincial-level administrative unit and socioeconomic region;
d) Solutions for implementing the land use plan.
Article 39. Provincial-level master plans and plans on
land use 1. Bases for formulation of provincial-level land use
master plans include: a) National-level land use planning;
b) Natural, socio-economic conditions; c)
Current status of land use, land potential and results of implementation of land use planning
land use at national level in the
previous period; d) Land use demand of industries
and fields; dd) Scientific and technological progress related to land use.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 19
provincial land use in the previous
period; dd) Land use demand of sectors, fields and provinces; e) Norms of land use;
g) Scientific and technological
progress related to land use.
4. Contents of the provincial land use plan include: a) Analysis and
evaluation of the results of the implementation of the provincial land use plan in the previous period; b)
Determine the area of the land types specified at Point b, Clause 2 of this Article in the land use planning
period for each year and for each district-level administrative unit; c) Determine the area of land types to change
the land use purpose specified at Points a, b, c, d and e, Clause 1, Article 57 of this Law in the planning period
for land use.
For projects of technical infrastructure, construction and embellishment of urban areas and residential areas
2. Contents of provincial-level land use planning include: a) Ten-year land
use orientation; b) Determination of the area of
land types that have been allocated in the land use planning
In rural areas, it is necessary to simultaneously determine the location and area of land to be acquired in the vicinity
land use by year and to each district-level administrative unit;
at the national level and the areas of different types of land according to the provincial land use
demand; c) Determination of land use areas according to use functions; d) Determine
the area of land types specified at Point b of this Clause for each district-level administrative unit;
d) Determination of scale and location of national and provincial-level works and projects using land for the
purposes specified in Articles 61 and 62 of this Law shall be implemented in the period specified in Clause 1 of this Article.
dd) Make a map of the provincial land use planning; e) Solutions
for implementing land use planning.
b) Master plan on socio-economic development of socio-economic regions, provinces and centrally run cities;
strategies and planning for development of sectors and fields; c) Natural, socio-economic conditions of provinces
and centrally run cities;
d) Current status of land use, land potential and results of implementation of land use planning
land use plans for each year and for each district-level administrative unit.
3. Bases for formulation of provincial-level land use plans include: a)
National 5-year land use plans; provincial land use planning; b) Five-year and annual socio-economic
development plans of the province; c) Five-year land use demand of sectors, fields and provinces;
d) Results of implementation of the provincial land use plan in the previous period; dd)
Ability to invest and mobilize resources to implement the land use plan.
Machine Translated by Google
20 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
land use at district level in the
previous period; dd) Land use demand of sectors, fields, district and commune
levels; e) Norms of land use;
g) Scientific and technological progress related to land use.
3. Grounds for making annual land use plans at district level include: a)
Provincial land use plans; b) Districtlevel land use planning; c) Land use
demand in the planning year of sectors, fields and levels; d) Ability to invest and
mobilize resources to implement the land use plan.
2. Contents of district-level land use planning include: a) Tenyear land use orientation; b)
Determination of the area of land types that have been allocated in the land use planning
4. Contents of the district's annual land use plan include: a) Analysis and
assessment of the results of the implementation of the previous year's land use
plan; b) Determine the area of land types that have been allocated in the provincial land
use plan and the area of land types according to the land use demand of the district and
commune level in the plan year;
at the provincial level and the areas of different types of land according to the land use needs of the district and commune levels;
c) Determining the land use areas according to the use function for each unit
to auction land use rights to implement housing, commercial, service, production and business
projects; dd)
Make a map of the provincial land use plan; e)
Solutions for implementing the land use plan.
Article 40. District-level land use planning and plans 1.
Bases for formulation of district-level land use planning include:
a) Provincial-level land use planning;
b) The master plan on socio-economic development of the province and district
level; c) Natural, socio-economic conditions of districts, urban districts, towns and
provincial cities; d) Current status of land use, land potential and results of implementation of land usecommune level
administration; d) Determine the area of land types identified at point b of this clause to
each commune-level
administrative unit; dd) Make a map of the district-level land use planning; for the area
planned for rice cultivation, the area planned for change of land use purpose specified at
Points a, b, c, d and e, Clause 1, Article 57 of this Law, detail to each unit shall be shown.
commune
level administration; e) Solutions for implementing land use planning.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 21
use the land for the purposes specified in Articles 61 and 62 of this Law in the next year
land use for defense and security in the previous
period; dd) Demand for land use for national defense and
security; e) Norms of land use; g)
Scientific and technological progress related to land use.
plan to each commune-level administrative unit.
2. Contents of land use planning for national defense and security include: a) Orientation
on land use for national defense and security; b) Determine the
demand for land use for national defense and security in the planning period for land use
For projects of technical infrastructure, construction and embellishment of urban centers and rural residential
areas, it is necessary to simultaneously determine the location and area of land to be recovered in the vicinity to
use land in accordance with the master plan on socio-economic development, national defense and security and
the national socio-economic development plan; c) Determine the location and area
of land for national defense and security to be re-allocated to localities for management and use for socioeconomic development purposes;
auction of land use rights for implementation of housing, commercial, service, production and business projects; d)
Determining the
area of land types that need to be changed the purpose of use for the types of land subject to the permits
specified at Points a, b, c, d and e, Clause 1, Article 57 of this Law in the planning year to each commune-level
administrative units; dd) Make a map of the district's annual land use plan; g) Solutions
for implementing the land use plan. 5. For districts that have urban planning approved
by a competent state agency, no land use planning shall be
drawn up, but an annual land use plan must be drawn up; in case the urban planning of the district is not
consistent with the area allocated in the provincial land use planning, the urban planning must be adjusted to be
consistent with the provincial land use planning. Article 41. Land use plannings and plans for national defense
and security 1. Bases for elaboration of national defense and security land use plannings include: a) National-level
land use planning; b) National strategy for socio-economic development,
defense and security, and
c) Determining the location and area of land to be recovered for the implementation of works or projects using
d) Solutions for implementing the master plan on land use for national defense and security.
master plan on development of socio-economic regions; c) Natural, economic
- social conditions; d) Current status of land use,
land potential and results of implementation of land use planning
Machine Translated by Google
22 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
4. Contents of the land use plan for national defense and security include: a) Analysis and
assessment of the results of the implementation of the land use plan for national defense and security in the previous
period; b) Determine
areas and land areas to be used for national defense and security purposes in the five-year plan period and specifically
up to each year; c) Specify the location and area of land for national defense
and security to be handed over to the locality for management within the 5-year plan period; d) Solutions for implementing
the plan on land use for national defense and security.
3. The Ministry of National Defense shall organize the elaboration of national defense land use master plans and plans;
The Ministry of Public Security shall organize the elaboration of security land use plannings and plans.
Article 42. Responsibilities for organizing the elaboration of land use master plans and plans 1. The
Government shall organize the elaboration of national master plans and plans on land use. Set
4. The Government shall detail this Article. Article 43.
Collecting opinions on land use master plans and plans 1. The agency organizing the
formulation of land use master plans and plans specified in Clauses 1 and 2, Article 42 of this Law shall have to organize
the collection of opinions. People's opinions on land use planning and plans.
Natural Resources and Environment shall assume the prime responsibility for assisting the Government in formulating master plans and plans
2. The form, content and time for collecting people's opinions on master plans and plans on land use shall comply with
the following provisions: a) The collection of people's comments on master
plans and plans Land use at national and provincial levels shall be implemented through the form of publicizing information
about the contents of master plans and plans on land use on the websites of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment,
the People's Committees of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. provincial level; The collection of people's
opinions on district-level land use master plans and plans is done through the form of
national land use plan. 2. Provincial-level People's
Committees shall organize the elaboration of provincial-level master plans and plans on land use; District-level People's
Committees shall organize the elaboration of district-level land use master plans and plans.
3. Grounds for making plans on land use for national defense and security include: a) National 5-year
land use plans, master plans on land use for national defense and security; b) Land use demand for 5 years for national
defense and security;
c) Results of implementation of the plan on land use for national defense and
security in the previous period; d) Ability to invest and mobilize resources to implement the plan on land use for
national defense and security.
Land management agencies at provincial and district levels shall assume the prime responsibility for assisting the People's
Committees of the same level in formulating land use master plans and plans.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 23
In case of necessity, the Land Use Master Plan and Plan Appraisal Council shall conduct field inspection
and survey of areas expected to be converted to land use purposes.
appraisal in the process of appraising master plans and plans on land use.
land use before submitting to the Appraisal Council of land use master plans and plans.
4. With regard to master plans and plans on land use for national defense and security, the Ministry of National
Defense and the Ministry of Public Security are responsible for consulting the provincial People's Committees during the
process of organizing the formulation of master plans and plans on land use. land.
Provincial and district land management agencies are responsible for assisting the Council
b) The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall establish a Council to appraise the master
plans and plans on land use for national defense and security and the provincial master plans and plans on
land use.
c) The time to collect opinions on master plans and plans on land use is 30 days from the date a
competent state agency decides to organize the consultation.
The central land management agency shall be responsible for assisting the Appraisal Council in the
process of appraising master plans and plans on land use; c) Chairman of
the People's Committee of the province establishes a Council to appraise regulations
3. The agency responsible for collecting opinions on land use master plans and plans specified in
Clause 1 of this Article shall have to elaborate a general report, receive and explain the people's opinions
and perfect the method. planning project, historical plan
district-level land use plans and plans.
The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for assisting the Appraisal Council in
methods of organizing conferences, directly collecting opinions and publicizing information on the contents
of master plans and plans on land use on the websites of the provincial-level People's Committees and the
district-level People's Committees; b)
Contents of collecting people's opinions on master plans and plans on land use include:
planning objectives, land use plans, construction projects implemented in the planning period, land use plans;
the process of appraising land use master plans and plans;
5. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
44. Appraisal of land use master plans and plans 1. Authority to
establish the Council for appraisal of land use master plans and plans: a) The Prime Minister
establishes a council to appraise land use master plans and plans:
2. The appraisal councils of land use master plans and plans at all levels are responsible for appraising
and sending notices of results of appraisal of land use master plans and plans to the agency that organizes
the formulation of the master plan and plan on land use. land specified in Article 42 of this Law; The agency
organizing the formulation of master plans and plans on land use shall be responsible for receiving and
explaining the contents of the notification of results of appraisal of the land use master plan and plan.
national land use.
Machine Translated by Google
24 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. Contents of appraisal of land use planning include: a) Legal basis,
scientific basis of the formulation of land use planning; b) The degree of conformity of the land
use planning plan with the national and local strategies and master plans for socio-economic development,
national defense and security; planning for development of sectors and fields; c) Economic, social and
environmental efficiency; d) Feasibility of the land use planning
option.
land use 1.
The National Assembly shall decide on national-level master plans and plans on land use.
Provincial-level People's Committees shall submit to the People's Councils of the same level for approval the regulation
4. Contents of appraisal of land use plans include: a) The degree of
conformity of the land use plan with the land use planning; b) The degree of conformity of the land
use plan with the socio-economic development plan; c) Feasibility of the land use plan.
3. Provincial-level People's Committees approve district-level master plans and plans on land use. The
district-level People's Committees shall submit to the People's Councils of the same level for approval the
district-level land use master plans before submitting them to the provincial-level People's Committees for approval.
2. The Government shall approve provincial-level master plans and plans on land use; planning, plan
5. Funds for organization of appraisal of master plans and plans on land use are determined
The district-level People's Committees shall submit the district-level annual land use plans to the provinciallevel People's Committees for approval. The provincial-level People's Committees shall submit to the provinciallevel People's Councils for approval the list of projects requiring land recovery as prescribed in Clause 3, Article
62 of this Law before approving the district-level annual land use plans. Article 46. Adjustment of land
use plannings and plans 1. The adjustment of land use plannings may only
be made in the following cases: a) There is an adjustment of the socio-economic development strategy,
national defense
and security; master planning for development of socio-economic regions, where such adjustment changes
the structure of land use; b) Due to the impact of natural disasters or war, the purpose, structure, location and
area of land use are changed;
defense land use plan; planning and security land use plan.
become a separate item in the budget for planning and land use planning.
land use, especially the change of land use purpose for rice cultivation, protection forest land, and special-use
forest land.
provincial-level land use plans and plans before submitting them to the Government for approval.
Article 45. Competence to decide and approve master plans and plans for use
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 25
3. Time and time limit for publicizing master plans and plans on land use shall comply with the
following provisions:
b) Provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for publicly announcing master plans, plans and plans
The adjustment of master plans and plans on land use shall comply with the provisions of this Law
Articles 42, 43, 44 and 48 of this Law.
the provincial land use plan at the office of the agency and on the portal of the provincial People's
Committee; c) The districtlevel People's Committee is responsible for publicly announcing the district-level master plans and
plans on land use at the agency's headquarters, on the web portal of the district-level People's
Committee and publicly announcing the contents of the land use plan. content planning, historical plan
public.
3. Contents of land use planning adjustment are part of the land use planning
2. Responsibility for publicizing master plans and plans on land use is prescribed as follows: a)
The Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for publicizing national master plans and plans
on land use at the headquarters. offices and on the portal
land use has been decided and approved. Contents of land use plan adjustment are part of the
approved land use plan.
of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment;
2. The Government shall prescribe conditions for organizations and individuals to conduct consultancy activities on making regulations
c) There is an adjustment to the land use planning of the immediate superior that affects the land
use planning; d) There is an adjustment
of the administrative boundaries of the locality.
2. The adjustment of the land use plan shall only be made when there is an adjustment to the land
use planning or there is a change in the ability to implement the land use plan.
land use plan. Article 48. Public
announcement of land use master plans and plans 1. National, provincial
and district land use master plans and plans, after being decided and approved by a competent
state agency, must be decided and approved by a competent state agency. to be announced
4. Competent state agencies decide and approve master plans and plans
district-level land use related to communes, wards and townships at the headquarters of the commune-level
People's Committees.
the land use planning of any level is competent to decide and approve the adjustment of the master
plan and plan on land use of that level. Article 47.
Consultancy on formulation of master plans and plans on land
use 1. During the formulation of master plans and plans on land use, the agency in charge of the
formulation of master plans and plans on land use may hire consultants. planning and land use planning.
Machine Translated by Google
26 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
4. At the end of the land use planning period, but the land use planning targets have not been
fully fulfilled, the implementation may continue until the period land use planning is completed.
local land use plan. Commune-level
People's Committees are responsible for implementing master plans and plans on land use in
communes.
The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security are responsible for the implementation of master plans and plans on the use of
next to be decided and approved by the competent state agency.
planning to continue to exercise the rights of land users but not to build new houses, works, plant
perennial trees; if land users wish to renovate or repair existing houses or works, they must obtain
permission from competent state agencies in accordance with law.
b) The publicity shall be carried out throughout the period of land use planning and plans.
Article 49. Implementation of master plans and plans on land
use 1. The Government shall organize and direct the implementation of national master plans
and plans on land use.
3. The land area stated in the annual district-level land use plan has been announced that must
be recovered for project implementation or the land use purpose must be changed but there is no
decision on land recovery after 3 years or no is permitted to change the land use purpose, the state
agency competent to approve the land use plan must adjust, cancel and announce the adjustment,
cancellation of the acquisition or change of purpose for the land area. land area recorded in the land
use plan.
The Prime Minister allocates land use norms to provinces and centrally run cities, the Ministry of
National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security on the basis of the national land use norms
decided by the National Assembly. The People's
Committees of provinces and districts are responsible for the implementation of master plans and plans
In case the state agency competent to approve the land use plan does not adjust or cancel it, or
has it adjusted or canceled but fails to announce the adjustment or cancellation, the land user is not
restricted in his/her rights. according to the provisions of Clause 2 of this Article.
In case there is an annual land use plan of the district level, the land user shall
a) The public announcement is made within 30 days from the date of publication
competent state agencies to decide and approve;
land use in the area must change the purpose of land use and recover the land according to the plan
land use for national defense and security.
5. The Government shall detail the organization of implementation of master plans and plans on
land use.
2. In case the land use planning has been announced but there is no annual land use plan of
the district level, the land user may continue to use the land and exercise the rights of the land user
as prescribed. under the law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 27
LAND ALSO, LAND LEASE, LAND USE PURPOSE
submitted to the National Assembly at the year-end session.
2. The annual report on the implementation of the land use plan for the last year of the first period of the
land use plan must be enclosed with a general report on the implementation of the whole land use plan.
Article 52.- Grounds for land allocation, land lease, and permission for land use purpose change 1.
The district-level annual land use plan approved by a competent state agency.
2. When this Law takes effect but district-level master plans and plans on land use have not been approved
by competent state agencies, the land recovery, land allocation, land lease, and recognition of use rights land,
change the purpose of land use based on the provincial land use plan and the list of projects in service of socioeconomic development of the district, summarized by the district People's Committee and submitted to the
People's Committee of the province. province decided.
land use plan to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment;
The approval of district-level master plans and plans on land use must be completed within one year from
the effective date of this Law.
b) The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security shall send reports on the results of
implementation of master plans and plans on land use for defense and security to the Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment; c) The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for summarizing the
results of annual implementation of master plans and plans on land use of the whole country to report to the Government.
Chapter V
land use plan for the final period and a general report on the implementation of the entire period of land use planning
Article 50. Reports on implementation of master plans and plans on land use 1.
Responsibility to report annually on results of implementation of master plans and plans on land use
land use is regulated as follows: a) The
People's Committees of communes and districts are responsible for sending reports on the results of
implementation of master plans and plans on land use to the People's Committees of the immediate superior;
Provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for sending reports on results of implementation of master plans and plansland use.
Article 51. Settlement of arising plannings and plans on land use after this Law takes effect 1. For
master plans and plans on land use
already decided and approved by competent state agencies If approved before the effective date of this
Law, they must review and additionally investigate to adjust master plans and plans on land use in accordance
with the provisions of this Law when making five-year land use plans (2016). - 2020).
land use planning period.
The report on the implementation of the annual land use plan for the last year of the land use planning
period must be enclosed with a summary report on the implementation of the land use plan.
Machine Translated by Google
28 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
The use of land for other people may only be made after the competent state agency decides to
recover the land in accordance with this Law and must complete the compensation, support and
resettlement according to the provisions of law for the land. in case of land clearance. Article 54.
Land allocation
without land use levy The State allocates land without
land use levy in the following cases: 1. Households and individuals directly engaged in
agricultural, forestry, or aquaculture production , salt production shall be allocated agricultural
land within the limit specified in Article 129 of this Law.
5. Residential communities using agricultural land; religious establishments using non-agricultural
land specified in Clause 1, Article 159 of this Law. Article 55. Land
allocation with collection of land use levy The
State shall allocate land with collection of land use levy in the following cases: 1.
Households and individuals may be allocated residential land.
4. Economic organizations that are allocated land for implementation of cemetery infrastructure investment projects,
2. Users of protection forest land, special-use forest land, production forest land being natural
forests, land for building offices of agencies, land used for defense and security purposes; land used
for public purposes not for business purposes; land for cemeteries or graveyards other than those
specified in Clause 4, Article 55 of this Law.
cemetery to transfer land use rights associated with infrastructure. Article 56.
Land lease 1. The State
leases land with annual land rental or one-on-one land rental
2. Economic organizations that are allocated land for implementation of housing construction investment projects
3. Non-financial public non-business organizations using land for construction of non-business
works.
times for the entire rental period in the following cases:
for sale or for sale combined with rental.
4. Organizations using land to build houses in service of resettlement according to the project of
2. Land use demand expressed in investment projects, applications for land allocation, land
lease, change of land use purpose.
Article 53. Land allocation or lease of land with respect to land currently being used by
other persons
The State's decision on land allocation or lease of land with respect to existing users
3. Overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises may be allocated land to execute
investment projects on housing construction for sale or for sale and lease.
Government.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 29
e) Economic organizations, self-financed public non-business organizations, overseas Vietnamese,
foreign-invested enterprises using land for construction of non-business works; g) Foreign organizations
with diplomatic functions use land to
build headquarters
c) Converting special-use forest land, protection forest land and production forest land to land use
work.
used for other purposes in the agricultural land group;
2. The State leases land with annual rental payment to units of the people's armed forces that
use the land for agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture, salt production, or agricultural, forestry,
or aquaculture production. aquaculture and salt production in combination with national defense and
security tasks.
d) Converting agricultural land to non-agricultural land; dd)
Transfer of non-agricultural land allocated by the State without the collection of historical fees
Article 57. Change of land use purpose 1. Cases
of change of land use purpose that must be permitted by a competent state agency include: a)
Change of rice land to land for planting
perennial crops or land for afforestation , land for aquaculture, land for salt production; b) Transfer
of land for growing other annual
crops to land for aquaculture
a) Households and individuals using land for agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture or salt
production; b) Households and
individuals wishing to continue using agricultural land in excess of the assigned quota specified in
Article 129 of this Law; c) Households and individuals using
land for commercial or service purposes; land used for mineral activities; land for production of
building materials and pottery; land for non-agricultural production establishments; d) Households and
individuals using
land to build public works for business purposes; dd) Economic organizations, overseas
Vietnamese, foreigninvested enterprises using land to implement investment projects on agricultural production,
forestry, aquaculture and salt production; non-agricultural production and business land; land for
construction of public works for business purposes; land for implementation of housing investment
projects for lease;
use land to non-agricultural land allocated by the State with land use levy or land lease; e) Converting
non-agricultural land
which is not residential land to residential land; g) Transfer of land for
construction of non-business works, land used for public purposes for business purposes, nonagricultural production or business land;
salinity, land for salt production, land for aquaculture in the form of ponds, lakes and lagoons;
Machine Translated by Google
30 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
2. When changing the land use purpose as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the land user must
fulfill financial obligations as prescribed by law; the land use regime, rights and obligations of land users
shall be applied according to the type of land after the use purpose is changed. Article 58. Conditions
for land allocation, land lease, permission for change
of use purpose
use land allocated or leased by the State for the implementation of other investment projects.
use land to implement investment projects
4. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
59. Authority to allocate land, lease land, permit change of use purpose
1. For a project that uses rice-growing land, protective forest land or special-use forest land for other
purposes other than those decided by the National Assembly and approved by the Prime Minister, the
investment policy agency Competent state agencies may only decide on land allocation, land lease, or
permission to change land use purposes when having one of the following documents: change the
purpose of use from 10 hectares of rice land or more; from 20
hectares of protective forest land or special-use forest land or more; b) Resolution of the People's
Council of the province in case of change of use purpose of less than 10 hectares of rice land; less than
20 hectares of protective forest
land and special-use forest land. 2. For projects using land on islands and bordering and coastal
communes, wards and townships, competent state agencies may only decide on land allocation, land
lease, or permission
to change the land use purpose. when approved in writing by relevant ministries and branches.
1. Provinciallevel People's Committees shall decide to allocate, lease or permit the change of land use purpose
in the following cases : land for the organization; b) Allocating land to
religious establishments;
3. Persons who are allocated or leased land by the State or permitted to change the use purpose
must be commercial or service land to commercial and service land; converting commercial, service, and
non-business construction land to land for non-agricultural production establishments.
land use for implementation of investment projects must meet the following
conditions: a) Having financial capacity to ensure the use of land according to the progress of the
investment project; b) Deposit as prescribed by law on investment;
c) Do not violate the provisions of the law on land in the case of current use of land
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. thirty first 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
foreign investment capital as prescribed in Clause 3, Article 55 of this Law;
use land according to the remaining land use term without having to change to land lease.
4. Economic organizations that lease land under the provisions of this Law have received the
transfer of agricultural land use rights from households and individuals that have been allocated land
by the State without collection of land use levy for the implementation of an investment project.
agricultural production capital before the effective date of this Law may continue to use it
d) Leasing land to overseas Vietnamese or foreign-invested enterprises as prescribed at Points
dd and e, Clause 1, Article 56 of this Law; dd) Leasing land to foreign organizations with diplomatic
functions.
2. The district-level People's Committees shall decide to allocate, lease or permit
the change of land use purpose in the following cases: with household
When the land use term expires, if it is extended by a competent state agency, it must change to
lease land according to the provisions of this Law.
family, individual. In case of leasing land to households and individuals, allowing the change of
agricultural land use purpose to use for commercial or service purposes
c) Allocating land to overseas Vietnamese, enterprises with
2. Organizations, households, individuals and overseas Vietnamese who are leased land under
the provisions of this Law have been allocated land by the State without collection of land use levy
before the effective date of this Law. for implementation, they must change to lease land from the
effective date of this Law and pay land rent.
with an area of 0.5 hectares or more, a written approval from the People's Committee of the province
must be obtained before making a
decision; b) Allocating land to residential
communities. 3. Commune-level People's Committees lease land belonging to the agricultural
land fund for public purposes of communes, wards and townships.
3. Economic organizations, households, individuals, and overseas Vietnamese in the case of
land lease under this Law that have received the lawful transfer of land use rights before the effective
date of this Law. shall continue to use the land for the remainder of the land use term without having
to change to land lease according to the provisions of this Law.
4. The agency competent to decide on land allocation, land lease, and permission to change
the land use purpose specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article is not authorized. Article 60.
Handling of cases
of land allocation or land lease before the effective date of this Law 1. Economic
organizations,
households, individuals, and overseas Vietnamese who lease land under The provisions of this
Law, which have been allocated land by the State with land use levy collection before the effective
date of this Law, may continue to use the land.
Machine Translated by Google
32 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
9. Construction of official houses of the people's armed forces.
6. Building the treasures of the people's armed forces.
SUPPORT, RESETTLEMENT
Section 1
7. Building a shooting range, training ground, weapon testing ground, weapons destruction ground.
defence security.
Chapter VI
1. Implementation of important national projects approved by the National Assembly
4. Construction of military stations and ports.
LAND RECOVERY, LAND RECRUITMENT, COMPENSATION,
5. Construction of industrial, scientific and technological, cultural and sports works directly
serving national defense and security.
2. Build a military base.
10. To build detention facilities and educational institutions managed by the Ministry of National Defense
and the
Ministry of Public Security. Article 62. Land recovery for socio-economic development for the national
and public interests The State shall recover land for socio-economic development for the national and public interests.
investment but must recover the land.
plus in the following cases:
land for the remaining term of the project without having to change to land lease according to
the provisions of this Law.
5. Overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises that are leased land by the State
with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period to implement investment projects to
build houses for sale or For sale and lease before the effective date of this Law, they may
continue to lease land for the remaining land use term or change to land allocation with land
use levy in accordance with this Law if there is a need. .
3. Construction of national defense works, battlefields and special works on
LAND RECOVERY, LAND RECRUITMENT
8. To build training establishments, training centers, hospitals and convalescent homes of
the people's armed forces.
Article 61. Land recovery for national defense and security
purposes The State shall recover land for national defense and security purposes in the
following
cases: 1. Working as a place of army station or office.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 33
where land must be recovered,
including: a) Construction projects of industrial parks, export processing zones, high-tech
zones and economic zones; new urban areas; investment projects with official development
assistance
(ODA); b) Projects on construction of headquarters of state agencies, political organizations
and socio-political organizations at the central level; headquarters of foreign organizations with
diplomatic functions; works of historical - cultural relics, ranked scenic spots, parks, squares,
monuments, memorials, national-level public non-business works; c) National-level technical
infrastructure construction projects, including traffic, irrigation, water supply, drainage,
electricity, and communications; the system of conduction and storage of petroleum, gas; national
reserve; waste collection and treatment works; 3. Implementation of projects
approved by the People's Councils of provinces that require land to be recovered, including:
a) Construction
projects for state offices, political organizations, and socio-political organizations; works of
historical - cultural relics, ranked scenic spots, parks, squares, monuments, memorial stele, locallevel public non-business works; b) Local technical infrastructure construction projects, including
traffic,
irrigation, water supply, drainage, electricity, communication, urban lighting; waste collection
and treatment works; c) Construction project of works serving the common activities of the
population community; resettlement
projects, housing for students, social housing, official residence; construction of works of
religious establishments; cultural, sports and entertainment areas serving the public; market;
cemeteries, graveyards, funeral homes, crematoriums;
case of mining minerals as common building materials, peat, minerals in areas with scattered and
small minerals and fully exploiting minerals. Article 63. Grounds for land recovery for national
defense and
security purposes; socio-economic development for the national and public interests
The recovery of land for defense and security purposes;
Socio-economic development for the national and public interest must be based on the
following bases: 1. Projects falling into the cases of land recovery
specified in Articles 61 and 62 of this Law.
d) Construction projects of new urban areas and new rural residential areas; renovating urban
areas, rural residential areas; industrial clusters; concentrated production and processing zones
of agricultural, forestry, aquatic and marine products; projects on development of protection forests
and specialuse forests; dd) Mining projects licensed by competent authorities, except for mining projects
2. Implement projects approved and decided by the Prime Minister
Machine Translated by Google
34 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. Land use schedule for project implementation.
Article 64. Land recovery due to violations of the land law 1.
Cases of land recovery due to violations of the land law include: a) Using land for
improper purposes already allocated or leased by the State , recognized the right to use land and
was administratively sanctioned for the act of using land for improper purposes but continued to violate;
b) The land user intentionally destroys the land; c) Land
is allocated or leased to the wrong subjects or to
the wrong authority; d) Land may not be transferred or donated in accordance with this Law
3. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
65. Land recovery due to termination of land use according to law, voluntary payment
receive transfers, receive gifts; dd) Land
allocated by the State for management but allowed to be encroached
upon or occupied; e) Land for which the land use right is not transferred according to the provisions
of this Law but the land user is encroached upon or appropriated due
to irresponsibility; g) The land user failed to fulfill his obligations towards the State and was prosecuted
return to land, which is in danger of endangering
human life 1. Cases of land recovery due to termination of land use according to law, spontaneously
fines for administrative violations without compliance; h)
Land for growing annual crops is not used for 12 consecutive months; land for planting perennial
crops is not used for a period of 18 consecutive months; afforestation land is not used for 24 consecutive
months; i) Land allocated or leased by the State for the implementation
of an investment project has not been used for a period of 12 consecutive months or the land use
schedule is 24 months behind the schedule stated in the investment project from the date on which the
land is used. when receiving and handing over land in the field, the land must be put into use; In case
the land is not put into use, the investor may extend the use period for 24 months and must pay the
State an amount corresponding to the land use levy and land rent for the delay in project implementation.
in this time; The extension has expired but the investor has not yet put the land into use
Voluntary return of land, at risk of endangering human life, including:
In case of use, the State recovers the land without compensation for the land and properties attached
to the land, except in the case of force majeure.
2. The annual land use plan of the district has been approved by the competent state agency.
2. The recovery of land due to violation of the land law must be based on a document or decision
of a competent state agency to determine the violation of the land law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 35
the
following: a) The document of the agency competent to handle has taken legal effect for the case
of land recovery specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article; b) The death
certificate or the decision declaring a person dead as prescribed by law and the written certification
of the absence of an heir issued by the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the
deceased person's heir permanently resides; for the case of land recovery specified at Point b, Clause
1 of this Article; c) The land user's written return, for
the case specified at Point c, Clause 1 of this Article; d) Decision on land allocation, decision on
land lease, for the case specified
at point d, clause 1 of this Article; dd) Document of the competent authority determining the level
of environmental pollution,
landslide, subsidence, affected by other natural disasters threatening human life, for the cases
specified at Points dd and d. Point e, Clause 1 of this Article.
abroad, except for the case specified at Point b, Clause 2 of this Article;
2. The land recovery prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article must be based on the following grounds:
3. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
66. Competence to recover land 1.
Provincial-level People's Committees shall decide to recover land in the following cases: a)
Recover land from organizations, religious establishments or Vietnamese residing in the country.
foreign organizations, foreign organizations with diplomatic functions, enterprises with investment capital
b) To recover agricultural land belonging to the public land fund of communes, wards and
townships. 2. The district-level People's Committees shall decide to recover land in the following
cases: a/
To recover land from households, individuals and residential communities;
a) An organization that is allocated land by the State without collection of land use levy or is
allocated land by the State with the collection of land use levy and whose land use levy is derived from
the state budget is dissolved, bankrupt, or relocated to a new location. other, reduce or no longer need
to use land; users of land leased from the State paying annual land rents are dissolved, go bankrupt,
move to another place, reduce or no longer need to use land; b) The individual
using the land dies without an heir; c) The land user voluntarily returns
the land; d) Land allocated or leased by the State for
a definite term but not extended; dd) Residential land in an area with environmental
pollution that poses a threat to human life; e) Residential land at risk of landslide, subsidence,
affected by
other natural disasters
threaten human life.
Machine Translated by Google
36 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
rural areas shall be assigned to the commune-level People's Committees for management. This land fund is
allocated or leased to households and individuals that have no land or lack production land in accordance with law.
to the end of the time limit for notice of land recovery.
3. The person whose land is recovered has the responsibility to coordinate with the agency or organization in
charge of compensation and ground clearance in the course of investigation, survey, measurement, tally, formulation
of compensation plan, support and resettlement.
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
2. The recovered land shall be allocated for management and use in accordance with the following
provisions: a) The recovered land according to the provisions of Articles 61 and 62 of this Law shall be
assigned to the investor for implementation of the first project. private or assigned to a public service organization
3. In case there are both subjects specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article in the land recovery area, the
provincial-level People's Committees shall decide on land recovery or authorize the district-level People's
Committees to decide on land recovery. land. Article 67. Notice of land recovery
and execution of decisions on land recovery for national defense and security purposes; Socioeconomic development for national and public interests 1. Before a decision on land recovery is issued, at
least 90 days
for agricultural land and 180 days for non-agricultural land, state agencies The competent authority must
notify the land recovery to the person whose land is recovered. The contents of the notice of land recovery include
the land recovery plan, investigation, survey, measurement and tally.
land to manage; b) Land
recovered according to the provisions of Clause 1, Article 64 and Points a, b, c and d, Clause 1, Article 65 of
this Law shall be assigned to a public land service organization for management and auction of the right to use
land. land use.
2. In case the land user in the land recovery area agrees to let the competent state agency recover the land
before the time limit specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the competent People's Committee shall decide to recover
the land. land without waiting
In case the land recovered under Clause 1, Article 64 and Points a, b, c and d, Clause 1, Article 65 of this
Law is agricultural land of households or individuals living in
publicly, the person whose land is recovered must comply with the decision on land recovery.
b) Recovery of residential land from overseas Vietnamese who are entitled to own houses
in Viet Nam.
Article 68. Organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance; management of recovered
land 1. Organizations
in charge of compensation and site clearance include public land service organizations, compensation,
support and resettlement councils.
4. When the decision on land recovery takes effect and the compensation and support plan
Support and resettlement approved by competent state agencies are announced
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 37
The counting is specified as follows:
c) Land users are responsible for coordinating with organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance
to conduct investigation, survey, measurement and determination of land area, statistics on houses and other assets
attached to land. associated with land to make plans for compensation, support and resettlement; d) In case the land
user in the area where the
land is recovered fails to cooperate with the organization in charge of compensation and ground clearance in the
investigation, survey, measurement and tally, the People's Committee shall commune, the Vietnam Fatherland Front
Committee at the commune level where the recovered land is located, and organize the compensation and site
clearance tasks, and mobilize and persuade land users to do so.
as follows:
a) The People's Committee of the level competent to recover land shall issue a notice of land recovery.
a) Organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance shall prepare compensation, support and
resettlement plans and coordinate with commune-level People's Committees of localities where the recovered land is
located to organize consultations on compensation, support and resettlement plans
Within 10 days from the date of mobilization and persuasion that users
The notice of land recovery shall be sent to each person whose land is recovered, disseminated to people in the
area where the land is recovered, and announced on the mass media and posted up at the headquarters of the
commune-level People's Committee. , the common living place of the residential area where the recovered land is
located;
in the form of holding direct meetings with people in the area where land is recovered, and at the same time publicly
posting plans for compensation, support, and resettlement at the headquarters of the commune-level People's
Committees and living places. of the residential area where the acquired land is located.
If the land user still fails to coordinate with the organization in charge of compensation and ground clearance, the
chairperson of the district-level People's Committee shall issue a decision on compulsory inventory. The person whose
land is recovered is responsible for implementing the decision on compulsory inventory. In case the person whose land
is recovered fails to comply, the chairperson of the district-level People's Committee shall issue a decision on
enforcement of the decision on compulsory inventory and organize the enforcement according to the provisions of
Article 70 of this Law.
b) Commune-level People's Committees are responsible for coordinating with organizations on duty
The organization of the consultation must be made in a record certified by the representative of the communelevel People's Committee, the representative of the commune-level Vietnam Fatherland Front Committee, and the
representatives of the people whose land is recovered.
Article 69. Order and procedures for land recovery for national defense and security purposes; socioeconomic development for the national and public interests 1. Formulating and
implementing plans for land acquisition, investigation, survey, measurement,
2. Prepare and appraise the prescribed compensation, support and resettlement plan
compensation, site clearance, implementation of plans on land recovery, investigation, survey, measurement and tally;
Machine Translated by Google
38 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
before submitting to the People's Committee of the competent level for decision on land recovery.
4. Organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance are responsible for management
3. The decision on land recovery, approval and organization of implementation of compensation,
support and resettlement plans are prescribed as follows: a)
Competent People's Committees specified in Article 66 of the Law this decision on land recovery,
decision on approval of compensation, support and resettlement plan on the same day; b) The
organization in charge of
compensation and ground clearance shall coordinate with the commune-level People's Committee
in disseminating and publicly posting the decision approving the compensation, support and resettlement
plan at the head office. the commune-level People's Committee offices and common places of the
residential areas where the recovered land is located; send a decision on compensation, support and
resettlement to each person whose land is recovered, clearly stating the level of compensation, support,
arrangement of resettlement house or land (if any), time and location pay
land management has been cleared. Article
70. Coercive implementation of the decision on compulsory inventory 1.
Principles of enforcement of the decision on compulsory inventory: a) The
enforcement must be conducted openly, democratically, objectively, and ensure order.
compensation and support; time for allocating houses or land for resettlement (if any) and time for
handing over recovered land to organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance; c)
Organize compensation, support and resettlement arrangements according to the approved
compensation, support and resettlement plan; d) In case the
person whose land is recovered does not hand over the land to the organization in charge of
compensation and ground clearance, the commune-level People's Committee and Vietnam Fatherland
Front Committee of the commune where the recovered land is located and organization on duty
orderly, safely and in accordance with the provisions
of law; b) The time to start the enforcement is done during office hours.
compensation and ground clearance, organize advocacy and persuasion for people with land to be
recovered.
The organization in charge of compensation and ground clearance is responsible for summarizing
written comments, clearly stating the number of agreeing opinions, the number of disagreeing opinions,
and the number of other opinions for the method. compensation, support and resettlement projects;
coordinate with the commune-level People's Committee of the locality where the recovered land is
located to hold a dialogue in case there are still disagreements about the compensation, support and
resettlement plan; complete the plan and submit it to the competent authority;
b) Competent agencies appraise compensation, support and resettlement plans
In case the person whose land is recovered has been mobilized and persuaded but does not
comply with the handover of land to the organization in charge of compensation and ground clearance,
the chairperson of the district-level People's Committee shall issue a decision on enforcement. recover
land and organize enforcement according to the provisions of Article 71 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 39
In case the coerced person refuses to receive the decision on enforcement
4. The order and procedures for implementing the decision on enforcement of compulsory inventory are
prescribed as follows:
a) The organization assigned to conduct the coercive mobilization, persuasion and dialogue with the
coerced person; b) In case
the person subject to coercion abides by the decision on enforcement, the organization assigned to
perform the coercion shall make a record to record the observance and conduct investigation, survey,
measurement and tally.
b) The decision on enforcement of the decision on land recovery has been publicly posted at the
headquarters of the commune-level People's Committee and at the common place of the residential area
where the recovered land
is located; c) The decision on enforcement of the decision on land recovery has taken effect;
or is absent when handing over the enforcement decision, the commune-level People's Committee shall make a decision
In case the coerced person does not comply with the coercive decision, the
report.
the authority assigned to enforce the enforcement decision. Article 71. Coercive
implementation of land recovery decisions 1. Principles of coercive
implementation of land recovery decisions comply with Clause 1, Article 70 of this Law.
3. Presidents of district-level People's Committees shall issue decisions on enforcement
2. Coerced implementation of the decision on compulsory inventory shall be effected when the following
conditions are fully satisfied: a)
The person whose land is recovered fails to comply with the decision on compulsory inventory after the
commune-level People's Committee, the People's Committee of The Vietnam Fatherland Front Committee at
the commune level where the recovered land is located and the organization in charge of compensation and
ground clearance
have mobilized and persuaded; b) The decision on enforcement of the decision on compulsory inventory
has been publicly posted at the headquarters of the commune-level People's Committee, at the common place
of the residential area where the recovered
land is located; c) The decision on enforcement of the decision on compulsory inventory has taken effect;
d) The person
subject to enforcement has received an effective enforcement decision.
2. Coercive implementation of a decision on land recovery shall be effected when the following conditions are fully
satisfied: a) The person
whose land is recovered fails to comply with the decision on land recovery after the People's Committee of the
commune or the People's Committee of the commune. the Vietnam Fatherland Front at the commune level where the
recovered land and the organization in charge of compensation and ground clearance have been mobilized and persuaded;
decide on compulsory inventory and organize the implementation of the enforcement decision.
Machine Translated by Google
40 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
a) The district-level People's Committee is responsible for organizing the enforcement and settling
complaints related to the enforcement in accordance with the law on complaints; implementation of the
resettlement plan before enforcement; ensure the necessary conditions and means to serve the coercion;
allocating funds for coercive land recovery; b) The enforcement committee is responsible for presiding over
the formulation of the
enforcement plan
enforcement of decisions on coercive land recovery;
In case the coerced person refuses to receive the property, the enforcement board must make a
record, organize the preservation of the property in accordance with law and notify the property owner to
receive the property back.
3. Presidents of district-level People's Committees shall issue decisions on enforcement
implement the decision on land recovery and organize the implementation of the enforcement decision.
5. Responsibilities of organizations and individuals in implementing enforcement decisions
In case the coerced person does not comply with the coercive decision,
or is absent when handing over the enforcement decision, the commune-level People's Committee shall make a decision
asset; the cost of preserving such property shall be borne by the owner;
The Coercive Execution Committee organizes the enforcement;
report.
c) The enforcement board has the power to force the coerced person and related persons to leave the
coercive land area and transfer their assets out of the coercive land by themselves; if they fail to do so, the
enforcement committee shall be responsible for moving the coerced person and related persons and their
property out of the coercive land.
b) The enforcement committee mobilizes, persuades and dialogues with the victim;
and budget estimates for enforcement activities submitted to competent People's Committees for approval;
implement coercion according to the approved plan; handing over land to organizations in charge of
compensation and ground clearance.
c) The police force is responsible for protecting order and safety in the process of organizing
In case there is property on the recovered land, the enforcement board must preserve it
d) The person subject to enforcement who has received the decision on enforcement shall implement
the effective decision on land recovery.
In case the coerced person refuses to receive the decision on enforcement
forced; if the person is coerced to comply, the enforcement board shall make a record to acknowledge the
observance. The land handover shall be effected within 30 days from the date of making the minutes.
4. Order and procedures for enforcement of land recovery: a)
Before conducting coercion, the district-level People's Committee chairperson shall decide to
land recovery:
decided to establish a Committee for enforcement;
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 41
Relevant agencies and units shall organize the assignment and publicly post up the decision on
enforcement of land recovery; participate in the enforcement of coercion; coordinate with the
organization in charge of compensation, ground clearance to seal and move the property of the
person whose land is forcibly
recovered; dd) Other relevant agencies, organizations and individuals are responsible for
coordinating with the Coercive Implementation Board in implementing the coercive land recovery
at the request of the Coercive Implementation Board.
4. The time limit for land requisition is not more than 30 days from the effective date of the
requisition decision. In case of a state of war or a state of emergency, the time limit for requisition
shall be counted from the date of issuance of the decision to no more than 30 days from the date
of abolition of the state of war or emergency.
6. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 72. Land requisition
1. The State requisitions land in cases where it is absolutely necessary to perform national
defense and security tasks or in a state of war, emergency, and natural disaster prevention and
control.
In case the land requisition duration expires but the purpose of the requisition has not been
completed, the extension may be extended but not exceeding 30 days. The decision to extend the
land requisition must be made in writing and sent to the person having the requisitioned land before
the end of the requisition period.
2. The land requisition decision must be made in writing; In urgent cases where it is impossible
to issue a written decision, the person competent to decide on land requisition shall be verbal but
must write a written certification of the decision on land requisition right at the time of requisition.
The land requisition decision takes effect from the time of issuance.
5. The person having the requisitioned land must abide by the requisition decision. In case the
land requisition decision has been made in strict accordance with the provisions of law but the
person having the requisitioned land does not comply, the person deciding to requisition the land
shall issue a decision on enforcement and organize the enforcement or hand over the land. for Owner
Within 48 hours from the time of verbal land requisition decision, the agency of the person
who made the verbal land requisition decision shall have to certify in writing the land requisition
and send it to the land owner. requisition.
d) The People's Committee of the commune where the recovered land is located is responsible for coordinating with the
3. Minister of National Defense, Minister of Public Security, Minister of Transport, Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister of Health, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of
Natural Resources and Environment, chairpersons of provincial-level People's Committees and
district-level People's Committee presidents have the authority to decide on land requisition, decide
on extension of land requisition. Persons competent to requisition land may not delegate authority
to other persons.
Machine Translated by Google
42 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
enforce.
d) Presidents of the People's Committees of provinces and districts where the requisitioned land
is located shall establish a Council to determine the level of compensation for damage caused by the
implementation of land requisition on the basis of the written declaration of the land user. and cadastral
records. Based on the level of compensation for damage determined by the Council, the President of
the People's Committee of the province or district
shall decide the level of compensation; dd) The compensation for damage caused by the
requisition of land shall be paid by the state budget in a lump sum and directly to the person having the
requisitioned land within 30 days from the date of land return.
use land, receive capital contribution by land use right as prescribed by law.
6. Persons competent to requisition land are responsible for assigning organizations and
individuals to manage and use requisitioned land for proper and efficient purposes; return the land at
the end of the requisitioning period; compensation for damage caused by land requisition.
2. The State adopts policies to encourage the leasing of land use rights and receipt of land use
rights as capital contributions from economic organizations, households and individuals for the
implementation of production and business projects and works.
8. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
73. Use of land through transfer or lease of rights
7. The compensation for damage caused by the requisition of land shall comply with the following
provisions: a)
The person having the requisitioned land shall be compensated for damage in case the
requisitioned land is destroyed; the case where the person having the requisitioned land suffers income
loss directly caused by the requisition of the land; b) In
case the requisitioned land is destroyed, the compensation shall be made in cash at the market
price of land use right transfer at the time of payment; c) In case the person who has the requisitioned
land suffers
income loss directly caused by the requisition of the land, the compensation level shall be
determined based on the actual loss of income calculated from the date of allocation of the requisitioned
land to the date of requisitioned land. return of requisitioned land is recorded in the decision on return
of requisitioned land.
Presidents of People's Committees of provinces and districts where the requisitioned land is located, organize the enforcement
use land, receive capital contribution by land use right for production and business
The actual loss of income must be consistent with the income due to requisitioned land
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
1. The use of land for the implementation of production or business projects or works that is not
subject to land recovery by the State specified in Articles 61 and 62 of this Law but conforms to the
master plan and plan on use If the land has been approved by a competent state agency, the investor
may transfer or lease the right to use the land
brought under normal conditions before the time of land requisition;
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 43
COMPENSATION FOR LAND, SUPPORT AND RESETTLEMENT
conditions for being granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other
land-attached assets under the provisions of this Law but have not yet been granted, except
for the case specified in Clause 2, Article 77 of this Law ; overseas Vietnamese who are entitled
to own houses associated with residential land use rights in Vietnam and have a Certificate or
are eligible for a Certificate of land use right or ownership. houses and other properties attached
to land according to the provisions of this Law which have not yet been granted.
Article 74. Principles of compensation for land when the State recovers
land 1. Land users who, when the State recovers land, fully meet the conditions for
compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law, shall be compensated.
2. Population communities, religious and belief establishments are using land other than
land allocated or leased by the State and have a Certificate or are eligible to be granted a
Certificate of land use right. , ownership of houses and other land-attached assets according
to the provisions of this Law which have not yet been granted.
2. Compensation is made by allocating land with the same use purpose
3. Overseas Vietnamese are allocated land by the State with collection of land use levy or
leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period; receive the transfer of land
use rights in industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones, hi-tech parks,
economic zones, have a Certificate or are fully eligible for a Certificate of land use right,
ownership own houses and other land-attached assets according to the provisions of this Law
but have not yet been granted.
If there is no land for compensation, compensation shall be made in cash according to the
specific land price of the recovered land type decided by the provincial People's Committee at
the time of land recovery decision.
Section 2
4. Organizations that are allocated land by the State with the collection of land use levy or
leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period; receive the inheritance of
land use rights, receive the transfer of land use rights but the paid land use levy or transfer
money does not originate from the state budget, have a certificate, or meet all conditions.
3. Compensation when the State recovers land must ensure democracy, objectivity,
fairness, publicity, timeliness and compliance with law. Article 75.
Conditions for compensation for land when the State recovers land for national
defense and security purposes; Socio-economic development for the national and
public
interests 1. Households and individuals that are using land other than land with annual
rental payment, have a certificate of land use right and a certificate of land use right. receive
ownership of houses and residential land use rights, certificates of land use rights, ownership
of houses and other land-attached assets (hereinafter referred to as certificates) or have sufficient
Machine Translated by Google
44 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
land but exempted from land use levy;
Article 76. Compensation for remaining land investment expenses when the State
recovers land for national defense and security purposes; Socio-economic development
for national and
public interests 1. Cases where land is not compensated but compensated for remaining
investment costs in land when the State recovers land includes: a)
Land is allocated by the State without collection of land use levy, except for agricultural
land allocated by the State to households or individuals specified in Clause 1, Article 54 of this
Law; b) Land allocated
by the State to organizations in the case of collection of use levy
conditions for issuance of certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other
land-attached assets as prescribed in this Law, which have not yet been granted.
shall be compensated for land and the remaining land investment expenses according to the following provisions:
c) Land leased by the State with annual land rental payment; leased land with one-off
rental payment for the entire lease period but exempt from land rent, except for households
and individuals using leased land due to implementation of policies towards people with
meritorious services to
the revolution; d) Agricultural land belonging to the public land fund of
communes, wards and townships; dd) Land contracted for agricultural production, forestry,
aquaculture, and salt production.
a) The area of agricultural land to be compensated includes the area within the limits
prescribed in Articles 129 and 130 of this Law and the land area inherited; b) For an area of
agricultural
land exceeding the limit specified in Article 129 of this Law, compensation for the land
shall not be paid but compensation for the remaining land investment costs;
6. Economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises that are
allocated land by the State with the collection of land use levies for the implementation of
investment projects to build houses for sale or to sale and rental combination; lease land with
one-time rental payment for the entire lease period, have a Certificate or have enough
2. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 77. Compensation for land and remaining investment costs in land when the
State recovers agricultural land from households and
individuals 1. Households and individuals are using agricultural land when the State recovers it. landconditions for issuance of certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other
land-attached assets as prescribed in this Law, which have not yet been granted.
The certificate of land use right and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets has
not yet been granted under the provisions of this Law.
5. Foreign organizations with diplomatic functions that are leased land by the State with
one-off rental payment for the entire lease period and have a Certificate or have sufficient
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 45
2. Economic organizations and self-financed public non-business organizations that are using agricultural
land leased by the State with annual rental payment when the State recovers the land shall not be
compensated for the land but shall be compensated. usually investment cost
land; compensation for land is determined according to the remaining land use term.
The compensation area must not exceed the agricultural land allocation quota specified in Article 129 of this
Law.
3. Communities and religious establishments that are using agricultural land, when the State recovers
land, and fully satisfy the conditions for compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law, they shall be
compensated for land according to the Government's regulations. government. Article
79. Compensation for land when the State recovers residential land
to the remaining land if this cost is not sourced from the state budget.
1. Households, individuals currently using residential land, and overseas Vietnamese who own houses
attached to land use rights in Vietnam and have sufficient
Article 78. Compensation for land, remaining land investment expenses when the State recovers
agricultural land from economic organizations or autonomous public non-business organizations
conditions for compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law, when the State recovers land, the compensation
shall be as follows: a) In case there is no
other residential land or house in the commune, ward or township where the land is located, the
compensation shall be paid as follows: recovered land shall be compensated with residential land or houses;
if there is no demand for compensation in residential land or houses, the State shall compensate in cash;
In case agricultural land is not special-use forest land, protection forest land, or production forest land is
natural forest of economic organizations that have contracted to households or individuals in accordance with
law when the State In case of land recovery, households and individuals that receive the contract will not be
compensated for the land, but will be compensated for the remaining land investment costs.
b) In case there is still land or house in the commune, ward or township where the recovered land is
located, compensation shall be made in cash. For localities with conditions on residential land fund, they shall
be considered for compensation in residential land.
financial institutions, residential communities, religious
establishments 1. Economic organizations that are using agricultural land are allocated land by the
State with collection of land use levy or leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period. ,
receive the transfer of land use rights when the State recovers the land, if they satisfy the conditions for
compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law, they shall be entitled to compensation for land use rights.
c) For the agricultural land area due to the transfer of land use rights in excess of the quota before the
effective date of this Law, the compensation and support shall comply with the Government's regulations.
2. For agricultural land that has been used before July 1, 2004 and the land user is a household or
individual directly engaged in agricultural production but does not have a Certificate or is not eligible for a
Certificate certification of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets as
prescribed in this Law, compensation for the actual land area in use shall be compensated.
Machine Translated by Google
forty six NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
2. Households and individuals that are using non-agricultural land other than residential land are
leased land by the State with annual rental payment; leases land with one-off rental payment for the
entire lease period but is exempt from land rental. When the State recovers land, they will not be
compensated for the land but will be compensated for the remaining investment costs in the land,
except for the following cases: households and individuals using land due to the implementation of
policies towards people with meritorious services to the revolution.
when the State recovers land, if they satisfy the conditions for compensation specified in Article 75 of
this Law, they shall be compensated with land with the same use purpose; in case there is no land for
compensation, they will be compensated in cash according to the remaining land use term, for land
used with a definite term.
4. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
80. Compensation for land, remaining investment costs in land when the State collects land
3. Economic organizations, self-financed public non-business organizations, overseas Vietnamese,
foreign organizations with diplomatic and business functions
3. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
81. Compensation for land and remaining investment costs in land when the State recovers
non-agricultural land which is not residential land of economic organizations, self-financed
public non-business organizations, and people's communities residents, religious and belief
establishments, overseas Vietnamese, foreign organizations with diplomatic functions, foreigninvested enterprises 1. Economic organizations, Vietnamese residing
in Vietnam Foreigners who are using non-agricultural land other than residential land, cemetery
land or graveyards, when the State recovers land, if they fully satisfy the conditions for compensation
specified in Article 75 of this Law, they shall be compensated by land with the same use purpose; in
case there is no land for compensation, they will be compensated in cash according to the remaining
land use term.
recovery of non-agricultural land that is not residential land of households or individuals
2. Economic organizations that are using land allocated by the State to build cemeteries or
graveyards specified in Clause 4, Article 55 of this Law; joint-venture enterprises using non-agricultural
land other than residential land by receiving capital contribution with land use rights specified in Article
184 of this Law, when the State recovers the land, they shall be compensated for the land according
to the provisions of the Government. government.
1. Households and individuals are using non-agricultural land that is not residential land
2. Households and individuals, when the State recovers land attached to houses, must relocate
but are not eligible for compensation for residential land. rent, lease-purchase housing or allocate
residential land with collection of land use levy.
3. Economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese, and foreign-invested enterprises that are using
land to implement housing construction projects when the State recovers the land, if they are eligible,
compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law shall be compensated for land.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 47
2. Support when the State recovers land includes: a) Support to
stabilize life and production; b) Support in training,
job change and job search for cases where agricultural land is recovered from households and
individuals directly engaged in agricultural production; recover residential land in combination with business
and service activities of households and individuals that have to relocate; c) Support for resettlement in
case residential
land is recovered from households, individuals or overseas Vietnamese who have to relocate; d) Other
support.
4. Economic organizations, self-financed public non-business organizations, overseas Vietnamese,
foreign organizations with diplomatic functions, foreign-invested enterprises currently using non-commercial
land agricultural land is leased by the State with annual rental payment. When the State recovers the land,
the remaining land investment costs shall be compensated.
Foreign-invested enterprises that are using non-agricultural land are leased land by the State with one-off
rental payment for the entire lease period, upon land recovery by the State, if they are eligible for
compensation as prescribed in Article 75. of this Law shall be compensated for the land according to the
remaining land use term.
Article 83. Support when the State recovers land 1.
Principles of support when the State recovers land: a) Land
users when the State recovers land, in addition to being compensated according to the provisions of
this Law, also receive compensation from the State when the State
recovers land. countries consider support; b) The support must ensure objectivity, fairness, timeliness, publicity and
in accordance with the law.
5. Communities, religious and belief establishments that are using non-agricultural land, when the
State recovers land and satisfy all conditions for compensation specified in Article 75 of this Law, they shall
be compensated for the land. according to government regulations. Article 82.- Cases where land
is recovered by the State without compensation for land The State shall recover land
without compensation for land in the following cases: 1. The cases specified in Clause 1, Article
76 of this Law; 2. Land allocated by the State for management; 3. Land
recovered in the cases specified in Article 64
and Points a, b, c and d, Clause 1, Article 65 of this Law; 4. In case of ineligibility for grant of a
certificate of land use rights and
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets as prescribed in this Law, except for the case
specified in Clause 2, Article 77 of this Law .
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Machine Translated by Google
48 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Establishment and implementation of resettlement projects before land acquisition.
2. The concentrated resettlement areas must build synchronous infrastructure, ensuring construction
standards and regulations, suitable to the conditions, customs and practices of each region or region.
3. Based on the annual land use plan of the district, the People's Committee of the province and the People's
Committee of the district shall organize the formulation and implementation of the plan for training, job change, and
assistance in finding looking for jobs for people whose land is acquired is agricultural land, residential land
combined with business and service. The plan for training, job change, and job search support is prepared and
approved at the same time as the compensation, support and resettlement plan.
4. The Government shall detail this Article. Article 86.
Arrangement of resettlement for people whose residential land is recovered but must move
3. The recovery of residential land can only be done after housing construction is completed
1. Organizations in charge of compensation and ground clearance assigned by the People's Committees of
provinces and districts to be responsible for arranging resettlement must notify the people whose residential land
is recovered that they are required to move home
In the process of formulating plans for training, job change and job search support, the People's Committees
of provinces and district-level People's Committees must organize consultations and are responsible for receiving
and explaining their opinions. of the person whose land is acquired. Article 85. Establishment
and implementation of resettlement projects
propose the resettlement arrangement plan and publicly post it up for at least 15 days at the head office
or infrastructure of the resettlement site.
Commune-level People's Committees, common places of residential areas where the leased land is located
1. Provincial-level People's Committees and district-level People's Committees are responsible for organizing
Article 84. Support in training, job change, job search for households and individuals when the State
recovers land 1. Households and individuals directly
engaged in agricultural production, when the State recovers land In addition to being compensated in cash,
they will also be supported with training, job change, and job search.
If the person receiving support for training, job change or job search is of working age and wishes to receive
vocational training, he/she may be admitted to a vocational training institution; receive advice and support in job
search, preferential credit loans to develop production and business. 2. For households and individuals that use
residential land in
combination with service business and whose main source of income is from business and service activities,
when the State recovers land and has to relocate, they may borrow capital. preferential credit for production and
business development; In case the person whose land is recovered is still of working age, he/she will be supported
in training, job change and job search.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 49
4. In case the person whose land is recovered is arranged to be resettled but the compensation and support money
is not enough to buy a minimum resettlement rate, the State will support
enough money to buy a minimum resettlement rate.
2. Persons whose land is recovered may be arranged for on-site resettlement if there is a resettlement project in
the land recovery area or there are conditions for arranging resettlement. Priority is given to a convenient location for
those whose land is recovered early to hand over the ground, and the person whose land is recovered is a person with
meritorious services to the revolution.
Article 87. Compensation, support and resettlement for special cases 1. For investment projects
whose investment policies are decided by the National Assembly, the Prime Minister approves the investment
policies which must be relocated. moving the entire population community, affecting the entire life, socio-economic,
cultural traditions of the community, land acquisition projects involving many provinces and centrally run cities, the Prime
Minister The Prime Minister decides on the compensation and support policy framework
The Government shall specify the minimum resettlement rate suitable to each condition
support and
resettlement. 2. For projects using loans from international and foreign organizations for which the State of Vietnam
has committed to a policy framework for compensation, support and resettlement, such policy framework shall be followed.
The approved resettlement arrangement plan must be publicly announced at the headquarters of the communelevel People's Committee, at the common living place of the residential area where the recovered land is located, and at
the resettlement site.
3. In the case of recovery specified at Points dd and e, Clause 1, Article 65 of this Law, the person whose land is
recovered is entitled to compensation, support and resettlement to stabilize their life and production according to
regulations. government.
region, region and locality.
Section
3. COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY,
PRODUCTION AND BUSINESS Article 88.
Principles of compensation for property damage, cessation of production and business when the State
recovers land
3. The specific land price for calculation of land use levy collection at the resettlement place and the selling price of
resettlement houses shall be decided by the People's Committee of the province.
and at the resettlement site before the competent state agency approves the plan for resettlement arrangement.
The notification contents include location, size of land fund, fund of resettlement houses, design, area of each land
lot, apartment, land price, price of resettlement house; plan to arrange resettlement for people whose land is recovered.
Machine Translated by Google
50 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. For technical and social infrastructure works attached to the land in use
2. For houses and other construction works attached to land that do not fall into the cases
specified in Clause 1 of this Article, when the State recovers the land, it is dismantled in whole or
in part but the remaining part does not meet the requirements of the State. technical standards as
prescribed by law, they will be compensated for damage according to the Government's regulations.
2. When the State recovers land and organizations, households, individuals, overseas
Vietnamese or foreign-invested enterprises have to stop production and business and suffer
damage, they shall be compensated. usually damage. Article 89.
Compensation for damage to houses and constructions on land when the State recovers
land 1. For houses and
works in service of daily life attached to land of Vietnamese households, individuals and
people If they are resettled overseas, when the State recovers land and must dismantle all or part
of it, but the remaining part does not meet technical standards as prescribed by law, the owner of
such house or construction shall be compensated by new construction value of houses and works
of equivalent technical standards.
the highest in the previous 03 consecutive years of the main crop in the locality and the average
price at the time of land acquisition;
The compensation level is equal to the new construction value of the work with equivalent technical
standards as prescribed by specialized laws. Article 90. Compensation for plants and animals
1. When the State recovers land and causes damage to plants,
the compensation
b) For perennial plants, the compensation is calculated by the existing value of the orchard at
the local price at the time of land acquisition, excluding the value of the tree.
In the case of the rest of the house, the work still meets the technical standards
land use rights; c) For
unharvested plants that can be moved to another location, they shall be compensated for the
costs of moving and for actual damage due to having to move or replant; d) For forest trees planted
with state budget
capital, natural forest trees
Usually follow the following rules:
1. When the State recovers land, the owner of the lawful property attached to the land is
If, when assigned to an organization, household or individual to plant, manage, care for and protect,
compensation shall be made according to the actual damage value of the orchard; Compensation money is
distributed to the people who manage, care for and protect according to the provisions of the law on forest
protection and development.
According to the provisions of law, compensation shall be made according to the actual damage.
a) For annual crops, the compensation is calculated by the output value of the harvest. The
yield value of the harvest is calculated according to the yield of the crop
property damage shall be compensated.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 51
3. In case the person whose land is recovered does not receive compensation or support according
to the compensation, support and resettlement plan approved by a competent authority, the compensation
and support money will be deposited into a custody account. of the State Treasury.
2. In case the agency or organization responsible for compensation is late in payment, when paying
compensation and support to people whose land is recovered, in addition to compensation and support
according to the compensation and support plan, If the resettlement is approved by a competent authority,
the person whose land is recovered will also be paid an additional amount equal to the late payment
interest rate according to the provisions of the Tax Administration Law calculated on the amount of late
payment and the delay time.
2. Property attached to land created in contravention of law or created
4. Land users who are compensated when the State recovers land but have not yet fulfilled their
financial obligations on land to the State as prescribed by law, must deduct the unfulfilled financial
obligations from the amount of compensation to be returned to the state budget.
from the date of receiving the notice of land recovery from the competent state agency.
5. The Government shall detail this Article.
3. Technical and social infrastructure works and other construction works are no longer in use.
Article 93. Payment of
compensation, support and resettlement 1. Within 30 days from
the effective date of implementation of the decision on land recovery of a competent state agency,
the agency or organization shall compensation liability must pay compensation and support to people
whose land is recovered.
2. When the State recovers land and causes damage to aquatic animals, the compensation shall
comply with the following provisions: a) With regard to aquatic
animals which at the time of land recovery, the time has expired. the harvest period is not subject to
compensation; b) For livestock which are
aquatic animals which at the time of land recovery has not yet reached the period of
harvest, they will be compensated for actual damage caused by early harvesting; in case it is possible to
move, they will be compensated for moving expenses and damage caused by moving; The specific
compensation level shall be prescribed by the People's Committee of the province. Article 91.
Compensation for moving expenses when the State recovers land 1. When the
State recovers land and has to move assets, the State shall compensate the expenses for
dismantling, moving and installing; In case of having to move the machinery system, production line,
compensation will also be paid for damage caused by dismantling, transporting and installing. 2. Provinciallevel People's Committees
shall prescribe compensation levels in Clause 1 of this Article. Article 92. In case the
State recovers land without compensation for property on land 1. Property on land in one of
the cases of land
recovery specified at Points a, b, d, dd, e, i Clause 1 Article 64 and Points b and d Clause 1 Article
65 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
52 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
same.
Article 95. Registration of land, houses and other land-attached assets
1. Land registration is compulsory for land users and land assignees for management;
Registration of ownership of houses and other land-attached assets shall be carried out at the
request of the owner. 2. Registration
of land, houses and other land-attached assets, including initial registration and registration
of changes, shall be carried out at the land registration organization under the land management
agency, in the form of registration signed on paper or registered electronically and has legal validity
OWNERSHIP OF HOUSES AND OTHER PROPERTY ATTACHED TO LAND
a) Land users and owners of land-attached assets exercise the rights to exchange,
transfer, lease, sub-lease, inherit or donate land use rights and land-attached assets; mortgage
or contribute capital with land use rights and land-attached assets; b) Land users and owners
of landattached assets are allowed to change their names; c) There is a change in shape,
size, area, number and address of the land parcel; d) There is a change in landattached assets compared to the registered contents; dd) Change of land use
purpose; e) There is a change in the
land use term;
3. The first registration shall be made in the following cases: a) The land
plot is allocated or leased for use; b) The land plot
is being used without registration; c) The land plot
is allocated for management without registration; d)
Houses and other properties attached to land have not been
registered. 4. Change registration is done for the case that has been granted a Certificate
Section
1 REGISTRATION OF LAND, HOUSE AND OTHER ASSETS
certified or registered with the following changes:
CONNECTED TO THE LAND
Article 94. Compensation for damage to land within the safety corridor when building
works with safety corridors When the State builds
public, defense and security works with safety corridors without If the land is not recovered
within the safe corridor, the land user shall be compensated for damage due to limited land use
ability, and damage to land-attached assets according to the Government's regulations.
Chapter VII
LAND REGISTRATION, LAND USE RIGHT CERTIFICATE,
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 53
use land in accordance with the law;
l) Establishing, changing or terminating the limited use right of the adjacent land
parcel; m) There is a change in restrictions on the rights of land users.
the judgment enforcement agency has been executed; A document recognizing the auction results of the right to use
k) Change of land use rights or ownership of land-attached assets according to successful
conciliation results on land disputes recognized by competent People's Committees; agreement
in the mortgage contract for debt settlement; body's decision
6. In the case of registration of changes specified at Points a, b, h, i, k and l, Clause 4 of this
Article, within 30 days from the date of change, the land user must carry out procedures for
registration of fluctuations; inheritance case
5. Land users and owners of property on land that have been declared and registered are
recorded in the cadastral book and granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses
and other assets attached to land. land if there is a need and fully meets the conditions prescribed
by this Law and other relevant laws; in case of registration of land change, the land user shall be
granted a certificate of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, or a
certificate of the change in the issued Certificate.
land use rights, the time limit for registration of changes shall be counted from the date on which
the land use right is divided as inheritance.
competent state agencies in charge of settling land disputes, complaints and denunciations about
7. The registration of land and land-attached assets takes effect from the time of registration
in the cadastral book.
Article 96. Cadastral dossiers
1. Cadastral dossiers include paper or digital documents showing detailed information about
each land parcel, the person assigned to manage the land, the land user, and the owner.
In case of first registration without being eligible for a Certificate of land use rights and
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, current land users may temporarily use the
land until the State decides to register for the first time. have decisions to handle according to
regulations of the Government.
land, decisions or judgments of the People's Courts, judgment enforcement decisions of the
g) Change from the form of land lease by the State with annual land rental to the form of land
lease with one-off payment for the entire lease period; from the form of land allocation by the State
without land use levy to the form of land lease; from renting land to allocating land with collection
of land use levy in accordance with this Law;
h) Transfer of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets of the
husband and wife into common land use rights and ownership of common property of husband
and wife; i)
Separation of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets of an
organization or of a household or of a husband and wife or a group of common land users or
property owners generally attached to the land;
Machine Translated by Google
54 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
2. For a land plot with many people sharing land use rights, and many people sharing houses
and other land-attached assets, the Certificate of land use right and ownership of houses and
other land-attached assets shall be required. must fully write the names of people who have the
same land use rights, who are the common owners of houses and other land-attached assets,
and issue 01 Certificate to each person; the case of the owners
Article 98. Principles of granting certificates of land use rights and ownership rights
IS THE LAND USE RIGHT CERTIFICATE GRANTED,
OWNERSHIP OF HOUSES AND OTHER PROPERTY ATTACHED TO LAND
ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets 1. Certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets shall be issued for each land parcel. In case the land user is using
land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets.
2. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall prescribe cadastral dossiers and
the making, correction and management of cadastral dossiers; the roadmap for converting paper
cadastral records into digital cadastral records.
2. The certificate of land use right, the certificate of house ownership and residential land use
right, the certificate of house ownership, the certificate of ownership of construction works have
been issued according to regulations. of the law on land, the law on housing, the law on
construction before December 10, 2009 are still valid.
Section 2
legal status and do not have to change to a certificate of land use rights, ownership of houses and
other land-attached assets; In case a person who has been granted a Certificate before December
10, 2009 wishes to renew it, he/she may change it to a Certificate of land use rights and ownership
of houses and other land-attached assets according to the provisions of law. This law.
1. Certificates of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets shall
be granted to persons with land use rights, house ownership rights, and other land-attached
assets ownership rights according to regulations. a uniform sample throughout the country.
At the request of the owner, the same Certificate shall be issued and given to the representative.
The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall specify the Certificate
ownership of assets attached to land, rights and changes in land use rights, ownership rights
property attached to land.
Article 97. Certificates of land use rights, ownership of houses and assets
If they use many agricultural land plots in the same commune, ward or township, upon request,
they shall be granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other properties
attached to the common land for those land parcels. .
other property attached to land
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 55
5. In case there is an area difference between the actual measurement data and the data recorded
on the paper specified in Article 100 of this Law or the certificate issued, but the boundary of the land
parcel being used remains unchanged compared With the boundary of the land plot at the time of having
the land use right documents, there is no dispute with the adjacent land users, when granting or renewing
the Certificate of land use right, ownership of houses and assets, Other assets attached to land The land
area is determined according to actual measurement data. Land users are not required to pay land use
fees for the larger difference, if any.
In case of re-measurement, the boundary of the land parcel has changed compared to the boundary
of the land plot at the time of obtaining the land use right document and the actual measured land area.
4. In the case of land use rights or land use rights, house ownership rights
use of land, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets as prescribed in Articles 100, 101 and
102 of this Law;
larger than the area stated in the land use right paper, the larger difference (if any) shall be considered
for issuance of a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets.
according to the provisions of Article 99 of this Law. Article 99. Cases of land use with a certificate of
land use
right
and other land-attached assets or ownership of houses and other land-attached assets that are common
property of husband and wife, the full name of wife and husband must be recorded in the Certificate of
land use right. land, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, unless husband and wife have
an agreement to name one person.
land use, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets 1. The State
shall grant certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets
for the following cases: a. ) The person currently using the land is eligible
for a certificate of land use right
In case the land use right or land use right, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, or
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, is the common property of husband and wife. The
certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets shall be changed
to the certificate of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets to include the
full name of the wife and the full name of the husband. if required.
3. Land users and owners of houses and other land-attached assets may receive certificates of
land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets after fulfilling their obligations.
finance in accordance with the law.
In case land users, owners of houses and other land-attached assets are not subject to financial
obligations or are exempted or debited from financial obligations and in case of land lease with rental
payment Annually, the certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets shall be received immediately after the issuance by a competent authority.
Machine Translated by Google
56 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
attached to the land; papers on handing over houses of gratitude, houses of love attached to land;
i) The land user splits the parcel or consolidates the parcel; groups of land users or
members of households, spouses, and land-using organizations that split or consolidate existing
land use rights;
k) The land user applies for the replacement or re-issuance of the lost Certificate.
d) Papers on transfer of land use rights, purchase and sale of houses attached to residential
land before October 15, 1993, certified by the commune-level People's Committee as being
used before October 15, 1993;
a) Papers on the right to use land before October 15, 1993, issued by a competent authority
during the implementation of the land policy of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the
Provisional Revolutionary Government. Domain Republic
d) The person who is entitled to use the land according to the successful conciliation results
for the land dispute; according to a judgment or decision of a people's court, a judgment
enforcement decision of a judgment enforcement agency or a decision on settlement of a
dispute, complaint or denunciation about land by a competent state
agency that has been executed. onion; dd) The
auction winner of the land use right; e) Land users in industrial parks, industrial clusters,
export processing zones, hi-tech
zones, economic zones; g) Buyers of houses and other
land-attached assets; h) Persons liquidated or valuated by the State on houses attached to residential lanSouth Vietnam and the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;
state-owned housing;
b) A temporary land use right certificate issued by a competent state agency or named in
the land register or cadastral book before October 15, 1993; c) Lawful papers on inheritance or
donation of land use
rights or attached assets
are using land with a certificate of land use right
1. Households and individuals that are using land stably and have one of the following
papers shall be granted a Certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other landattached assets and not land use levy must be paid:
b) Persons who are allocated or leased land by the State from the effective date of this Law;
c) Persons
who are converted, transferred, inherited or donated as land use rights or contributed as
capital in the form of land use rights; recipient of the right to use
land use when dealing with mortgage contracts with land use rights for debt recovery;
2. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 100. Issuance of certificates of land use rights and house ownership
and other assets attached to land for households, individuals and communities
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 57
on the transfer of land use rights with signatures of related parties, but before the effective date
of this Law, the procedures for transferring the land use rights have not been carried out.
2. Households and individuals that are using land have one of the papers specified in Clause
1 of this Article in which another person's name is written, together with other documents.
granted to land users;
4. Households and individuals that are currently using land allocated or leased by the State
from October 15, 1993 to the effective date of this Law, but have not yet been granted a
Certificate, shall be granted a Certificate. land use rights, ownership of houses and other landattached assets; in case financial obligations have not been fulfilled, they must comply with the
provisions of law.
If the land is used in accordance with the law and that land is not in dispute, the certificate of
land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets shall be granted without
having to pay land use levy.
5. Residential communities currently using land with communal houses, temples, shrines, ambulatory buildings, and temples
their street, their church; agricultural land specified in Clause 3, Article 131 of this Law and that
land is not disputed and certified by the commune-level People's Committee of the locality where
the land is located as common use land for the community, shall be granted a certificate of land
use right. land, ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets. Article 101. Issuance of certificates of land use rights and house ownership
and other land-attached assets for households and individuals that are using land without
papers on land use rights.
3. Households and individuals may use land according to judgments or decisions of people's
courts, judgment enforcement decisions of judgment enforcement agencies, written recognition
of successful conciliation results, and settlement decisions. If disputes, complaints and
denunciations about land by a competent state agency have been executed, they shall be
granted a Certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets;
in case financial obligations have not been fulfilled, they must comply with the provisions of law.
dd) Papers on liquidation and valuation of houses attached to residential land; documents to buy a house under the department
1. Households and individuals that are using land before the effective date of this Law
without the papers specified in Article 100 of this Law, have permanent residence in the locality
and directly engage in agricultural production. Agriculture, forestry, aquaculture, salt making in
areas with difficult socio-economic conditions, areas with extremely difficult socio-economic
conditions, are now approved by the People's Committees of communes where the land is
located. If the person who has confirmed that he/she has used land stably and without dispute,
he/she shall be granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other landattached assets and shall not be required to pay land use levy.
g) Other papers established before October 15, 1993 according to the Government's
regulations.
state ownership as prescribed by law;
e) Papers on land use rights issued by a competent agency under the old regime
Machine Translated by Google
58 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
b) The organization must hand over the area used for residential land to the district-level
People's Committee for management; In case residential land conforms to the land use planning
approved by a competent state agency, the residential land user shall be granted a certificate of land
use rights and ownership of houses and other assets attached to the land. with soil; in case a State
enterprise engaged in agricultural, forestry, aquaculture or salt production has been allocated land
by the State and that enterprise has given a part of the land fund to households or individuals to use
a part of the land fund for residential land before January 1. In July 2004, a plan to redeploy the
residential land area into a residential area must be made and submitted to the People's Committee
of the province where the land is located for approval before handing it over to the locality for management.
illegal purposes, lending or leasing of land areas to be encroached on or occupied;
and other assets attached to land for organizations and religious establishments that are using the land
4. Religious establishments currently using land are granted a certificate of land use right,
3. For organizations currently using land that are leased by the State as prescribed in Article 56
of this Law, the provincial-level land management agency shall carry out procedures for signing a
land lease contract before granting the Certificate of land rights. land use, ownership
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets when fully meeting the following conditions:
1. Organizations currently using land shall be granted certificates of land use rights and
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets for the land area used for the right purposes.
a) Being permitted to operate by the State; b)
Undisputed land; c) The land is
not transferred or donated after July 1
own houses and other assets attached to land.
2004.
5. The Government shall detail this Article.
2. The land area that the organization is using but has not been granted a Certificate of land
use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets shall be settled as follows: a) The
State shall recover the portion
of the land. unused land area, using the wrong item
2. Households and individuals currently using land do not have the papers specified in Article
100 of this Law, but the land has been used stably before July 1, 2004 and has not violated the land
law. , is now certified by the commune-level People's Committees as undisputed land, in accordance
with the land use planning, urban construction detailed planning, rural residential area construction
planning approved by the state housing authority. If the country has the authority to approve the
planning, the certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets
will be granted.
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 102. Issuance of certificates of land use rights and house ownership
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 59
the residential land area shall be determined by the quota for recognition of residential land in the locality;
The area of residential land is determined to be the entire area of the land plot.
3. For residential land plots with gardens and ponds formed from December 18, 1980 to before July 1, 2004
and the current user has one of the prescribed land use right documents. In Article 100 of this Law, if the residential
land area is clearly stated in that document, the residential land area shall be determined according to that document.
determined according to the level of residential land allocated to each household or individual specified in Clause 2,
Article 143 and Clause 4, Article 144 of this Law.
c) In case the area of the land plot is smaller than the quota for recognition of residential land in the locality;
6. The remaining area of garden and pond land, after the residential land area has been determined according
to the provisions of Clauses 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Article, shall be determined to be used for the purposes currently in
use according to the current state of use. prescribed in Clause 1, Article 10 of this Law.
4. For residential land plots with gardens and ponds formed from December 18, 1980 to before July 1, 2004
and the current user has one of the prescribed land use right documents. If the residential land area is not specified
in Article 100 of this Law, the residential land area shall be determined as follows:
7. The Government shall detail this Article. Article 104.
Issuance of certificates for land-attached assets 1. Land-attached assets are granted
certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, including houses. ,
construction
5. In case the land use right document is not available as prescribed in Article 100 of this Law but the land has
been used stably before October 15, 1993, the residential land area shall be determined according to the prescribed
level. in Clause 4 of this Article; In case the land has been used stably since October 15, 1993, the residential land
area
a) Provincial-level People's Committees, based on local conditions and practices, shall prescribe residential
land recognition quotas for each household in accordance with local practices according to the number of members
in the household; b) In case the area of the land plot is larger than the
local recognition quota for residential land
Article 103. Determination of residential land area in case of gardens and ponds 1. Garden
and pond land of households and individuals defined as residential land must be in the same land plot where
houses are located. 2. For residential land
plots with gardens and ponds formed before December 18, 1980 and the current user has one of the papers
on land use rights specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3. Article 100 of this Law, the residential land area shall be
determined according to that document.
If the land use right documents specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3, Article 100 of this Law do not clearly identify
the residential land area, the recognized residential land area shall not have to pay land use levy. determined to be
no more than 05 times the residential land allocation quota specified in Clause 2, Article 143 and Clause 4, Article
144 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
60 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
2. District-level People's Committees shall grant certificates of land use rights and ownership of
houses and other land-attached assets to households, individuals, residential communities, and
Vietnamese residing in the country. Foreigners are allowed to own houses associated with residential
land use rights in Vietnam. 3. For the cases
that have been granted certificates, certificates of house ownership or certificates of ownership of
construction works that exercise the rights of land users and owners of attached assets. attached to land
or the granting and re-granting of certificates, certificates of house ownership or certificates of ownership
of construction works shall be carried out by natural resources and environment agencies in accordance
with the Government's regulations. Article 106. Correction and revocation of the issued Certificate
1. The certificate-issuing authority shall correct
the issued Certificate with errors in the following cases: a) There are
errors in information: information about name, legal or personal documents, address
Provincial-level People's Committees may authorize natural resources and environment agencies
of the same level to issue certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets.
ownership of houses and other land-attached assets
1. Provincial-level People's Committees shall grant certificates of land use rights and ownership rights.
of the land user, the owner of the property on land compared to his/her legal or personal papers at the
time of issuance of the Certificate; b) There is an error in information about the
land parcel and land-attached assets compared with the land registration dossiers and land-attached
assets which have been verified and verified by the land registration agency.
own houses and other land-attached assets for religious organizations and establishments; overseas
Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises implementing projects
2. The State shall revoke the granted Certificate in the following cases: a) The State
recovers the entire land area on the granted Certificate; b) Issuance and replacement of
the issued Certificate; c) Land users, owners
of land-attached assets register changes in land and land-attached assets and must issue new
certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other assets. attached to the land;
investment project; foreign organizations with diplomatic functions.
other, production forests are planted forests and perennial trees existing at the time of issuance of the
Certificate of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets.
2. The grant of certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets for land-attached assets shall comply with the Government's regulations. Article 105. Competence
to grant
certificates of land use rights and ownership rights
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. sixty one 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
LAND USE RIGHTS
Section 1
3. The revocation of the issued Certificate, for the case specified at Point d, Clause 2 of
this Article, by the agency competent to issue the Certificate of land use rights and ownership
of houses and other assets attached to the land. the land specified in Article 105 of this Law
shall be decided upon after having obtained the conclusion of the same-level inspection agency
and the effective document of the competent state agency in charge of land dispute settlement.
2. The Government shall detail the collection of land use levies, land rents and levies
LAND FINANCE
fines for violations of the land law, compensation to the State when causing damage in the
management and use of land.
Chapter VIII
Article 108. Bases and time for calculation of land use levy and land
rent 1. Bases for calculation of
land use levy: a) The allocated land area, the use purpose change, and the recognition of
land use rights; b)
Purpose of land use;
Article 107. Financial revenues from land 1.
Financial revenues from land include: a) Land use
levy when land is allocated by the State with collection of land use levy or permitted to
change the use purpose. land, recognizing land use rights for which land use levy must be
paid; b) Land
rent when leased by the State; c) Land use tax; d)
Income tax from the
transfer of land use rights; dd) Proceeds from the
sanctioning of violations of the land law; e) Compensation to
the State when causing damage in the management and use of land; g) Fees and charges
in land
management and use.
FINANCE OF LAND, LAND PRICE AND AUCTION
d) The issued certificate is not authorized, not the right user;
use land, do not conform to the land area, do not meet the conditions for grant, do not use the
land for the right purpose or land use term or the origin of land use as prescribed by the law
on land, unless The issuer of that Certificate has transferred the land use rights and ownership
of land-attached assets in accordance with the law on land.
Machine Translated by Google
62 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
land use levy or land rent, financial obligations must be fulfilled for the extended period.
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 110. Exemption or reduction of land use levy and land
rent 1. The exemption or reduction of land use levy and land rent shall be effected in the
following cases: a)
Using land for production and business purposes business in the field of investment incentives
3. The time for calculating and collecting land use levy and land rent is the time when the State
decides to allocate or lease land, permit the change of land use purpose, and recognize the land
use right. Article 109.
Payment of land use levy and land rent upon change of use purpose
b) Using land to implement policies on housing and residential land for people with meritorious
services to the revolution and poor households; households and individuals being ethnic minorities
in areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions, border areas and islands; use land for
construction of social housing in accordance with the law on housing; residential land for displaced
people when the State recovers the land due to the risk of threatening human life;
or areas eligible for investment incentives in accordance with the law on investment, except for investment projects
c) Using agricultural land for households and individuals who are ethnic minorities; d) Using
land for
construction of non-business works of public non-business organizations;
land use and land use extension 1.
When changing the land use purpose specified at Points d, dd, e and g, Clause 1, Article 57
of this Law, land users must pay land use levy and rent a) Pay the land use levy and one-off
payment for the entire
lease period equal to the difference between the land use levy and the land rent of the type of
land after the land use purpose is changed and land use levy, land rent of the type of land before
the change of land use purpose; b) Pay annual land rent according to the type of land after changing
the land use purpose.
commercial housing construction;
2. When the land use term is extended, the land user is liable to pay
c) Land prices as prescribed in Article 114 of this Law; In case of auction of land use rights,
the land price is the auction winning price.
2. Bases for calculating land rental:
a) Land area for lease; b) The
land lease term; c) Land rental
unit price; in case of auction of land lease rights, the rental land price is the auction winning
unit price; d) The
form of land lease by the State with annual rental payment or land lease with one-off rental
payment for the entire lease period.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 63
land use plan approved by a competent state agency.
2. The financial sources of the Land Development Fund are allocated from the state budget and
mobilized from other sources as prescribed by law.
service departments directly serving agricultural, forestry, aquaculture, and salt production for agricultural
cooperatives;
LAND PRICE
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 112. Principles and methods of land valuation 1. The
land valuation must ensure the following principles: a) According to the
lawful land use purpose at the time of valuation; b) According to the land use
term; c) In accordance with the
common land price on the market for the transferred land with the same use purpose, the winning
price at auction of land use rights for places where there is an auction of land use rights or income from
the use of land. land use; d) At the same time, adjacent land parcels have the
same use purpose, ability to
g) Other cases as prescribed by the Government.
Profitability, income from similar land use will have the same price.
Section 2
2. The Government shall prescribe land valuation methods.
Article 113. Land price bracket
The Government shall promulgate a land price bracket every five years for each type of land and for
each region. During the implementation of the land price bracket, if the common land price in the market
increases by 20% or more compared to the maximum price or decreases by 20% or more compared to
the minimum price in the land price bracket, the Government shall adjust the price bracket. suitable land.
Article
114. List of land prices and specific land prices 1.
Based on the principles and methods of land pricing and land price brackets, the provincial-level
People's Committees shall elaborate and submit to the People's Councils of the same level for approval the land price lis2. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
111. Land development funds 1.
Local land development funds are established by the provincial-level People's Committees or
entrusted to development investment funds or other local financial funds to advance capital for
compensation, site clearance and land fund creation according to master plans and plans
dd) Land for construction of airport and aerodrome infrastructure; construction land
facilities and works providing aviation services; e) Using
the land as a ground for the construction of offices, drying yards and warehouses; muscle building
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 sixty four
4. The specific land price shall be used as a basis in the following cases: a) Calculation of land use
levy when the State recognizes the land use right of households and individuals for the residential land area.
exceeding the limit; allow to move items
Provincial-level land management agencies shall submit them to the Land Price Appraisal Council for consideration before
submitting them to the People's Committee of the same level for decision.
2. The land price list is used as a basis in the following cases: a) Calculating land use levy when the
State recognizes the household's right to use residential land
families and individuals for the area within the quota; permit the change of land use purpose from agricultural land,
non-agricultural land that is not residential land to residential land
The Land Price Appraisal Council consists of the Chairman of the People's Committee of the province as the Chairman
An organization that has the function of consulting on land price determination to advise on determining specific land prices.
At least 60 days before submitting to the People's Council of the same level for approval of the land price list,
the People's Committee of the province shall send the draft land price list to the agency competent to develop the
land price bracket for consideration. If the price of land is bordered between provinces and centrally run cities,
report it to the Prime Minister
The determination of a specific land price must be based on an investigation and collection of information on
decision.
land plots, market land prices and land price information in the land database; apply the appropriate land valuation
method. Based on the results of consultancy on land price determination,
land use, recognition of land use rights with collection of land use levy, leased land with one-off rental payment for
the entire lease period.
3. Provincial-level People's Committees decide on specific land prices. Provincial-level land management
agencies are responsible for assisting the provincial-level People's Committees in organizing the determination of
specific land prices. In the process of implementation, the provincial land management agency is entitled to hire a team
before issue. The land price list is established every 5 years and publicly announced on January 1 of the first year
of the period.
During the implementation of the land price list, when the Government adjusts the land price bracket or the
common land price in the market fluctuates, the People's Committee of the province shall adjust the land price list
accordingly.
for the area within the quota of residential land allocation to households and individuals; b) Calculation
of land use tax; c) Calculation of
fees and charges in land management and use; d) Calculation of fines
for administrative violations in the field of land; dd) Calculation of compensation to the
State when causing damage in the management and use of
Presidents and representatives of relevant agencies, organizations and organizations with the function of consulting on land
price determination.
land use; e)
Calculation of the value of land use rights to pay to the person who voluntarily returns the land to the State in
case the returned land is the land allocated by the State with the collection of land history.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 65
other provisions of relevant laws;
form of auction of land use rights;
d) Calculation of the value of land use rights upon equitization of a state-owned enterprise in
which the joint-stock enterprise uses land in the case that the State allocates land with collection of
land use levy or leases land with one-off rental payment for the whole land; Rental period; calculate
land rent in case equitized state enterprises are leased land by the State with annual rental payment;
d) Calculation of compensation when the State
recovers land.
b) Request the consulting hirer to provide information and documents related to the consultancy;
4. The land price determined by the consultant is one of the bases for state agencies to have
b) Calculating land use levy when the State allocates land with collection of land use levy not
through auction of land use rights; recognition of land use rights, permitting change of land use
purpose for organizations that must pay land use fees;
authority to regulate and decide on land prices.
c) Calculation of land rent in case the State leases land without approval
Article 116. Rights and obligations of organizations with the function of consulting on land price
determination 1. Rights of organizations with the function of consulting on land
price determination: a) Providing consultancy on land price determination according to the provisions of the Law this, the Law of Prb) When settling complaints about land prices at the request of competent state agencies and
related parties; c) When performing civil
transactions related to specific land prices at the request of the parties. 2. Operational conditions
of land
price determination consultants and land price determination consultancy practice shall comply
with the Government's regulations.
3. The land price determination by the land price determination consultant must be independent,
objective, honest and comply with the principles and methods of land pricing specified in Article 112
of this Law.
land use purpose from agricultural land, non-agricultural land that is not residential land to residential
land for the area exceeding the quota of residential land allocation to households and individuals.
Calculation of land rent for agricultural land in excess of the land allocation quota, exceeding the limit
for receiving the transfer of agricultural land use rights of households and individuals;
5. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 115. Land price determination
consultancy 1. Land price determination consultancy shall be carried out in the
following cases: a) When formulating, adjusting the land price bracket; construction and adjustment of land pricland price determination; receive service fees as agreed in the contract;
and specific land valuation required by competent state agencies;
Machine Translated by Google
66 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
d) To fulfill tax obligations and other related financial obligations as prescribed by law; dd) Register
the list of appraisers and the
change or addition to the list of appraisers with the competent state agency where the land price
determination consultancy organization is located.
head office;
e) Store dossiers and documents on the results of consultancy on land price
determination; g) Other obligations as prescribed by law.
of consulting results on land price determination;
2. The auction of land use rights must comply with the order and procedures prescribed by the law on
land and the law on asset auction. Article 118. Land use right
auction cases and cases
Section
3 AUCTION OF LAND USE RIGHTS
be honest, equal, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of the parties involved.
b) Carry out the agreement under the consultancy contract on land price determination with the
consulting hirer; c) Subject to inspection and examination by competent state agencies; mechanical report
no auction of land use rights
Article 117. Principles of land use right auction 1. Land use
right auction shall be conducted publicly, continuously, objectively and neutrally.
1. The State allocates land with collection of land use levy or leases land by auction of land use rights
in the following cases, except for the cases specified in Clause 2 of this Article: a) Construction investment
housing for sale or for rent
or for lease-purchase; b) Invest in building infrastructure for transfer or lease; c) Use
the land fund to create capital for infrastructure construction investment; d) Commercial
and service land use; land for non-agricultural production establishments; dd) Lease of
agricultural land for public use for public purposes
agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture, salt making;
competent state agencies on organization and results of consultancy activities on land price determination
on an annual basis or in unexpected cases;
c) Unilaterally terminate or cancel the contract of consultancy on land price determination when the
consulting hirer violates the conditions agreed upon by the two parties in the contract or as prescribed by
law; d) Other rights as
prescribed by law.
2. Obligations of organizations with the function of consulting on land price
determination: a) To take responsibility before law for accuracy, honesty and objectivity.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 sixty seven
workplaces, non-business establishments, production and business establishments whose landattached assets are owned by the State;
g) Allocate residential land in urban areas and rural areas to
households and individuals; h) Land allocation or land lease for cases of land use levy or
land rent reduction.
3. In case the land is put up for auction of land use rights as prescribed in Clause 1 of this
Article but there are no participants or there is only one person who registers to participate in the
auction or auction at least twice but no If successful, the State shall allocate or lease land without
having to auction land use rights. Article 119. Land use right auction 1. Conditions
for organizing land use right auction when the State
allocates or leases land:
a) Having an annual land use plan of the district level approved by a competent state agency;
b) Land that has been cleared, land
with land-attached assets, which are state-owned; c) Having a plan for auction of land use
rights approved by a
competent state agency.
2. Cases in which land use rights are not auctioned when the State allocates or leases land
include: a) Land allocation
without land use levy; b) Using land exempted
from land use levy or land rent specified in Article 110 of this Law; c) Use the land specified
at Points b and
g, Clause 1 and 2, Article 56 of this Law; d) Using land for mineral activities; dd) Using land
to implement investment projects on construction of
resettlement houses, social houses and official-duty houses; e) Allocate residential land to
cadres, civil servants and
public employees who move to work places according to the dispatching decisions of
competent agencies; g) Allocating residential land
to households and individuals who have permanent residence in the commune but do not
have residential land and have not been allocated
residential land by the State; h) Allocating residential land to households and individuals with
permanent residence in townships located in areas with difficult socio-economic conditions or
areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions without land. live and
have not been allocated residential land by the State; i) Other cases decided by the Prime Minister.
e) Allocating or leasing land with respect to land recovered by the State due to rearrangement and handling of buildings;
Machine Translated by Google
68 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
2. The land information system includes the following basic components: a)
Technical infrastructure for land information technology;
b) Operating system software, system software and application software; c) National land
database. Article 121. National land
database 1. The national land database is built
uniformly throughout the country.
unified nationwide, serving multi-purpose; according to national and international standards and
regulations recognized in Vietnam.
Chapter IX
3. The content, structure and type of information about the land database shall comply with
the regulations of the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment.
Article 122. Management and exploitation of the land
database 1. Information in the land database approved by a competent state agency
2. The national land database consists of the following
components: a) Database of legal documents on land; b) Cadastral
database; c) Database of basic
survey of land; d) Database of land use planning
and plans; dd) Land price database; e) Statistical database,
land inventory; g) Database
on inspection, examination and settlement of
disputes, complaints and denunciations;
provided has the same legal validity as in paper records.
LAND INFORMATION SYSTEM AND LAND DATABASE
2. The land database which is the property of the State must be closely ensured security and
safety; all acts of unauthorized access, destruction, falsification of information in the land database
are strictly prohibited.
land report; h)
Other databases related to land.
Article 120. Land information system 1.
The land information system is designed as a whole and built into a single system.
2. Organizations and individuals participating in the auction of land use rights must fully satisfy
the
following conditions: a) Being the subjects to be allocated or leased land by the State according
to the provisions of Articles 55 and 56
of this Law ; b) The conditions for implementation of an investment project as prescribed in
Article 58 of this Law must be met in case of land allocation or lease for the implementation of the project.
investment project.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 69
TERM OF LAND USE
Chapter X
land data; ensure funding for the operation and maintenance of the land information system,
land database.
MODE OF USE OF LAND TYPES
4. Provincial-level People's Committees shall have to organize the construction, management and
exploitation of information systems and land databases in their localities; provide land data to the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment for integration into the national land database.
2. The land management agency shall perform the public services specified in Clause 1 of this Article;
provide convenient, simple and safe services for the organization
5. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment shall detail the construction, management and
exploitation of the land information system; conditions of organizations and individuals engaged in private activities
organizations and individuals in the network
environment. Article 124. Responsibilities for building land information
systems 1. The State shall adopt policies on investment in building land information systems and establishments.
Consulting on building database, land information system.
3. Relevant ministries, branches and agencies are responsible for providing basic investigation results
Article 125. Land for stable and long term use
Land users may use land for a stable and long term in the following cases: 1. Residential land used by
households
or individuals. 2. Agricultural land used by the
population community specified in Clause 3, Article 131 of this Law.
copies and data and information related to land for the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment to
update into the national land database, land information system.
3. Organizations and individuals that have demand for information and land data are exploited and used
to be used through the central and local land portals and must pay a fee; When exploiting land information
and data, they must comply with the provisions of law. Article 123. Electronic public services in the
field of land 1. The electronic public services provided include registration
of land and land-attached assets; conduct transactions on land and properties attached to land; provide
information and data about land.
2. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for organizing the construction,
management and exploitation of the national land information system and database; implementation of electronic public services
Section 1
in the field of land as prescribed by the Government.
Machine Translated by Google
70 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
For projects with large investment capital but slow capital recovery, investment projects in areas with
difficult socio-economic conditions, and areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions that require a
long period of time. For a longer term, the term of land allocation or land lease shall not exceed 70 years. For
housing
business projects for sale or for sale combined with rental or let
in Vietnam may be considered and decided on the basis of an investment project or an application for land
allocation or land lease, but not exceeding 50 years.
2. The agricultural land lease term for households and individuals must not exceed 50 years. When the
land lease term expires, households and individuals may consider continuing to lease the land if they have a
need.
For lease purchase, the term of land allocation to the investor is determined according to the term of the project
3. Time limit for land allocation or land lease for organizations to use for purposes of agricultural
production, forestry, aquaculture or salt production; organizations, households and individuals to use for
commercial and service purposes, as non-agricultural production bases; organization to carry out investment
projects; Vietnamese people settled in
judgment; Buyers of houses attached to land use rights are entitled to stable and long-term land use.
foreign investors, foreign-invested enterprises to carry out investment projects
3. Protection forest land, special-use forest land and production forest land are natural forests. 4.
Commercial land, service land, land of non-agricultural production facilities of households and individuals
that are being used stably, which is not land allocated or leased by the State for a definite term. 5. Land for
construction of offices of
agencies specified in Clause 1, Article 147 of this Law; land for construction of non-business works of nonfinancial public non-business organizations specified in Clause 2, Article 147 of this Law. 6. Land used for
defense and security purposes. 7. Land for religious
establishments specified in Article 159 of this Law. 8. Land of
beliefs. 9. Land for traffic, irrigation, land with historical - cultural relics,
scenic spots,
land for construction of other public works without commercial purposes. 10. Land for cemeteries
and graveyards. 11. Land used by economic
organizations is specified in Clause 3, Article 127 and Clause 2, Article 128 of this Law. Article 126.
Land use with a definite term
1. The time limit for land allocation and
recognition of agricultural land use rights for households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural
production shall comply with the provisions of Clauses 1, 2, and b. Clause 3, Clause 4 and Clause 5, Article
129 of this Law is 50 years. Upon the expiration of the time limit, households and individuals directly engaged
in agricultural production may continue to use the land according to the time limit specified in this Clause, if
they wish.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 71
Upon the expiration of the land use term, if the land user wishes to continue using it, the State shall consider
extending the land use term but not exceeding the time limit specified in this Clause. 7. For a land plot used for
multiple
purposes, the land use term is determined according to the duration of the type of land used for the main
purpose.
8. The time limit for land allocation or land lease specified in this Article is counted from the date of issuance
5. Term of lease of land belonging to the agricultural land fund used for purposes
Land use is regulated as follows: a) In case
of conversion of protective forest land or special-use forest land to another purpose, the duration is
determined according to the duration of the type of land after the use purpose is changed. The land use term is
counted from the time of issuance of the decision permitting the change of land use purpose; b) In case of
transferring land for rice cultivation, land for planting other
annual crops, land for planting perennial crops, land for production forests, land for aquaculture, land for salt
production to planting protective forests or special-use forests, the household , individuals may use land stably
and long-term; c) In case the use purpose is changed between different types of land, including land for planting
other annual crops,
land for growing perennial crops, land for production forests, land for aquaculture, and land for salt
production, households and individuals using land users may continue to use such land according to the allocated
or leased term.
land allocation or land lease decisions of competent state agencies.
Upon the expiration of the time limit, households and individuals using land may be considered by the State
for an extension of land use term but not exceeding the time limit specified in Clause 1, Article 126 of this Law if
they wish to continue using it;
public benefits of communes, wards and townships for not more than 5 years.
Article 127. Term of land use upon change of land use purpose 1. Term of land use for
households and individuals upon change of land use purpose
6. Land for construction of non-business works of self-financed public non-business organizations specified
in Clause 2, Article 147 of this Law and public works for business purposes not exceeding 70 years.
Upon the expiration of the land use term, if the land user wishes to continue using it, the State shall consider
extending the land use term but not exceeding the time limit specified in this Clause.
4. The lease term for land for construction of working offices of foreign organizations with diplomatic
functions shall not exceed 99 years. Upon the expiration of the time limit, if a foreign organization with a diplomatic
function wishes to use land, the State shall consider extending it or lease another land, each extension shall not
exceed the time limit specified in this Clause.
Machine Translated by Google
72 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Article 129. Agricultural land allocation quota 1. Land
allocation quota for annual crops, aquaculture, and working land
Section
2 AGRICULTURE LAND
3. Economic organizations change the use purpose from non-agricultural land with stable and long-term
use to non-agricultural land with definite term or from non-agricultural land with definite term to non-agricultural
land for use long-term stability then
2. The allocation limit of land for planting perennial crops to each household or individual shall not
exceed 10 hectares for communes, wards and townships in the delta; no more than 30 hectares for
communes, wards and townships in the midland and mountainous areas.
salt for each household or individual directly engaged in agricultural production as follows:
3. The land allocation quota for each household or individual must not exceed 30 hectares for each of
the following types of land:
economic organizations can use land stably and long-term.
Article 128. Land use term upon receipt of land use right transfer 1. The land use term
upon receipt of a land use right transfer, for a type of land with a specified term, is the remaining land
use duration of the land use term. land use before receiving the transfer of land use rights.
a) No more than 03 hectares for each type of land, for provinces and centrally-run cities in the Southeast
region and the Mekong Delta region; b) Not more than 02 hectares for each type of land for other provinces
and centrally run cities.
2. The transferee of the land use right for the type of land which is used stably and long-term may use
the land in a stable and long-term manner.
d) In case of conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes, the land use term shall be
determined according to the duration of the type of land after the use purpose is changed. The land use term
is counted from the time of issuance of the decision permitting the change of land use purpose; dd) In case
of change of use purpose from non-agricultural land with stable
and long-term use to non-agricultural land with definite term or from non-agricultural land with definite
term to non-agricultural land with stable use In the long term, households and individuals can use land in a
stable and long term.
2. Land use duration for organizations, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises implementing
investment projects not in industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones or zones high
technology when changing land use purposes shall be determined according to the investment projects
specified in Clause 3, Article 126 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
seventy three NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Provincial-level People's Committees shall prescribe quotas for allocation of bare land, bare hills and
land with water surface in the group of unused land for households and individuals to put into use according
to approved master plans and plans on land use. approved by the competent state agency.
6. Limits on allocation of agricultural land for annual crops, perennial crops, afforestation, aquaculture
and salt production in the buffer zone of special-use forests for each household
In case households and individuals are allocated additional land for planting perennial crops, the land
limit for perennial crops shall not exceed 05 hectares for communes, wards and townships in the delta; no
more than 25 hectares for communes, wards and townships in the midland and mountainous areas.
8. Agricultural land area of households and individuals due to transfer, lease, sub-lease, inheritance,
donation of land use rights, receipt of land use rights as capital contribution from others, contracting , is
leased land by the State which is not included in the agricultural land allocation quota specified in this Article.
Article 130. Limits for receiving transfer of agricultural land use rights of
households
families and individuals shall comply with the provisions of Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Article. 7. For
the agricultural land area of households and individuals currently using outside the commune, ward or
township where their permanent residence is registered, the household or individual may continue to use it,
if it is the land that is registered. Allotment without collection of land use levy shall be included in the
agricultural land allocation quota of each household or individual.
family, individual 1.
The limit for receiving the transfer of agricultural land use rights of households and individuals does not
exceed 10 times the agricultural land allocation quota of households and individuals for each type of land
specified in the provisions of the Decree No. Clauses 1, 2 and 3, Article 129 of this Law.
In case households and individuals are allocated additional production forest land, the allocation limit
for production forest land must not exceed 25 hectares.
The land management agency where agricultural land has been allocated without land use levy to
households or individuals shall send a notice to the commune-level People's Committee of the place where
such household or individual has registered their permanent residence to agricultural land allocation limit.
5. The quota for allocation of bare land, bare hills and land with water surface in the group of unused
land to households and individuals and put into use according to the planning for agricultural production,
forestry, aquaculture, salt production must not exceed the land allocation quota specified in Clauses 1, 2 and
3 of this Article and shall not be included in the quota of agricultural land allocation to households and
individuals specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Article.
a) Protection forest land; b)
Production forest land.
4. In case households and individuals are allocated many types of land including land for growing
annual crops, land for aquaculture and land for salt production, the total land allocation quota must not
exceed 05 hectares.
Machine Translated by Google
74 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
preserving national identity associated with customs and practices of ethnic groups;
stable use can continue to use. 3. Agricultural land
used by the population community is regulated as follows: a) The residential community is
allocated land by the State and has the land use right recognized by the State for
effective, they may continue to use them according to the provisions of this Law;
For use by the State, reclaimed land and recovered agricultural land are sources to form or supplement the
agricultural land fund used for public purposes of communes, wards and townships. For places where
agricultural land has
been left for public purposes in excess of 5%, the area beyond 5% shall be used for construction or
compensation when other land is used for construction of public works. plus of location
b) Communities with land allocated or recognized by the State with land use rights have the responsibility
to protect the allocated land, and are entitled to use the land in combination with the purposes of agricultural
production and aquaculture. used for other purposes. Article 132. Agricultural land used for public
purposes 1. Based on
the land fund, characteristics and local needs, each commune, ward and township
may establish a fund of agricultural land used for public purposes. no more than 5% of the total area of
land for growing annual crops, land for growing perennial crops, and land for aquaculture to serve local public
needs.
b) For localities that have not yet allocated land to households and individuals according to the provisions
of the land law, the People's Committee of the commune where the land is located shall make a plan for land
allocation and request the People's Committee of the commune where the land is located. district-level people
decide to
allocate land; c) For localities where the People's Committees at all levels have instructed households to
Agricultural land returned or donated by organizations, households or individuals with the right to use
families and individuals negotiate and adjust land for each other during the implementation of policies and
laws on land before October 15, 1993 and are currently using land.
2. The Government shall stipulate limits on receipt of transfer of agricultural land use rights by households
and individuals in accordance with specific conditions in each region and each period. Article 131. Agricultural
land used by
households, individuals and communities 1. Agricultural land used by households and
individuals includes agricultural land allocated, leased or recognized by the State as land use rights. ;
due to lease of land use rights from other organizations, households or individuals; due to receipt of conversion,
transfer, inheritance or donation of land use rights in accordance with law.
2. The use of agricultural land allocated by the State to households and individuals is regulated as
follows: a) Households and
individuals that have been allocated land by the State before the effective date of this Law
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 75
The proceeds from the lease of land belonging to the agricultural land fund used for public
purposes must be remitted into the state budget managed by the commune-level People's
Committees and may only be used for the public needs of the communes, wards, and communes.
town in accordance with the law.
The land use term for each lease must not exceed 5 years.
Townships to be used for the following purposes: a)
Construction of public works of communes, wards and townships, including cultural, physical
training and sports facilities, public recreation and entertainment, healthcare, education. education,
markets, cemeteries, graveyards and other public works as prescribed by the provincial People's Committees;
land use plan approved by a competent state agency.
4. Agricultural land fund used for public purposes of communes, wards and towns
Article 133. Agricultural land used by organizations, overseas Vietnamese, foreigninvested enterprises 1. Economic organizations, overseas
Vietnamese, enterprises with investment capital Foreign investors wishing to use land for
agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture or salt production may be considered by the State
to lease land to implement investment projects.
b) Compensation for people whose land is used for construction of public works
2. Economic organizations and public non-business organizations that have been allocated
or leased land by the State before the effective date of this Law for use for agricultural and
forestry production purposes must review their current status. land use status, making land use
plans. The content of the land use plan must clearly define the area, the boundaries of use, the
area of each type of land to be retained for use, the land use term, and the area of land handed
over to the locality.
townships are managed and used by the People's Committees of communes where the land is located according to master plans and plans
Provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for directing the review and approval
of land use plans; land allocation, land lease according to the approved land use plan; recover
unused, improperly used, contracted, leased or loaned land areas, encroached upon or occupied
to create land funds for allocation or lease to organizations, households, individual. The allocation
and lease of land must give priority to households and individuals who are of ethnic minorities
who have no land or lack production land in urban areas.
local.
plus the provisions at Point a of this
Clause; c) Building houses of gratitude and houses
of compassion. 3. For the unused land area for the purposes specified in Clause 2 of this
Article, the commune-level People's Committees shall lease it to local households and individuals
for agricultural production and aquaculture according to regulations. Auction for rental.
direction; assigned to households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural production or
aquaculture in the locality that have not yet been allocated land or lack production land.
2. Agricultural land fund used for public purposes of communes, wards and towns
Machine Translated by Google
76 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
supplement the lost area of specialized wet rice cultivation or increase the efficiency of rice land
use according to the Government's
regulations. Article 135.
Production forest land 1. The State allocates natural production forest land to forest management orga3. Persons who are allocated or leased land by the State for non-agricultural purposes from
land specialized in wet rice cultivation must pay an amount for the State to supplement.
The State shall adopt policies to support, invest in building infrastructure, and apply modern
science and technology to the planned area for high-yield and high-quality rice cultivation.
If they use the land in excess of the limit, they must switch
to renting land; b) Leasing land to economic organizations, households, individuals, overseas
Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises to implement investment projects on afforestation; c)
Economic
organizations, households, individuals, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises
that are allocated or leased land by the State for production forests according to the provisions
of Points a and Point b of this Clause may use the unforested land for afforestation or perennial
crops.
to manage, protect and develop forests.
3. Economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises using
production forest land may combine landscape business, eco-environmental tourism under the
forest canopy. 4. Concentrated production forest land
located far from residential areas that cannot be directly assigned to households or
individuals shall be assigned by the State to organizations to protect and develop forests in
combination with agricultural production, forestry and aquaculture.
2. Users of rice-growing land have the responsibility to improve and increase fertility
2. The State allocates or leases land from planted production forests according to the
following
provisions: a) Allocating land to households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural
production according to the quotas specified at Point b, Clause 3 of this Article 129 of this Law
for use in forestry production. For the area of production forest land used by households and individuals,
of the land; must not be converted to use for the purpose of planting perennial trees, afforestation,
aquaculture, salt making and non-agricultural purposes without the permission of a competent
state agency.
3. Economic organizations that have been allocated land by the State without collecting land use levy for their use
used for the purpose of agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture, salt making before the
effective date of this Law must change to lease land. Article 134. Land for rice
cultivation 1. The State
shall adopt policies to protect rice-growing land and limit the conversion of rice-growing land
to non-agricultural purposes. In case it is necessary to change a part of the rice land area to use
for other purposes, the State shall take measures to supplement the land area or increase the
efficiency of rice land use.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 77
5. Communities that are allocated protective forests by the State under the provisions of the Law
on Forest Protection and Development shall be allocated protective forest land for forest protection and
development; have rights and obligations as prescribed in the Law on Forest Protection and
Development. Article 137. Specialuse forest land 1. The State allocates special-use forest land to special-use forest management organizations fomanage and protect according to master plans and plans on land use approved by competent state
agencies, and may combine land use for other purposes in accordance with the law on forest protection
and development.
2. Protection forest management organizations shall contract out protective forest land to
households and individuals living there to protect and develop forests; District-level People's Committees
shall allocate residential and agricultural land to such households and individuals for use.
4. Competent People's Committees decide to allocate or lease land in the buffer zone of specialuse forests to organizations, households and individuals for use for production, research and experiment
purposes. forestry or combine national defense and security according to the forest development
planning of the buffer zone and use the land for other purposes in accordance with the law on forest
protection and development. 5. Provincial-level People's Committees shall
decide to lease special-use forest land to economic organizations in areas associated with
landscape business, eco-environmental tourism under the forest canopy.
2. Special-use forest management organizations shall assign short-term contracts of special-use
forest land in strictly protected sub-zones to households and individuals who have not yet been able to
move out of that area to protect forests.
3. Organizations, households and individuals that have the need and ability to protect and develop
forests and are living in protection forest areas without a management organization and planning areas
for afforestation shall: to be allocated by the State protective forest land for forest protection and
development and to combine the use of land for other purposes according to the provisions of the law
on forest protection and development.
3. The special-use forest management organization shall contract out special-use forest land in
the ecological restoration subdivision to households and individuals living in that area to protect and
develop forests.
4. Provincial-level People's Committees shall decide to lease land for protection forests to economic
organizations in areas associated with landscape business, eco-environmental tourism under the forest
canopy.
Article 136. Protection forest land
1. The State allocates protective forest land to a protection forest management organization for
management, protection, zoning, regeneration, and afforestation according to master plans and plans
on land use already approved by competent state agencies. approved, may combine land use for other
purposes in accordance with the law on forest protection and development.
Machine Translated by Google
78 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Salt-making land is leased by the State to economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese,
and foreign-invested enterprises to implement investment projects on salt production.
3. The State encourages the use of land capable of making salt to produce salt for industrial
and daily life needs. Article 139. Land with inland water surface 1.
Ponds, lakes and lagoons allocated by
the State according to the quotas applicable to households and individuals
Ponds, lakes and lagoons leased by the State to economic organizations, households,
individuals, overseas Vietnamese, and foreign-invested enterprises to implement investment
projects on aquaculture. fisheries, agricultural production or agriculture combined with nonagricultural purposes. 2. For lakes and lagoons in the
territory of many communes, wards and townships, the use shall be decided by the districtlevel People's Committees. For lakes and lagoons in the territory of many districts, towns,
provincial cities, the use shall be decided by the People's Committee of the province. For lakes
and lagoons belonging to many provinces and centrally run cities, the use shall be regulated by
the Government. Article 140. Land with coastal water
surface 1. Land with coastal water surface
is leased by the State to economic organizations, households, individuals, overseas
Vietnamese and enterprises with investment capital. foreign investment to use for the purposes
of aquaculture, agricultural production, forestry, salt making, and non-agriculture.
Article 138. Salt-making
land 1. Salt-making land is allocated by the State to households and individuals within the
local land allocation quota for salt production. In case of exceeding the limit, the land must be
changed to leased land.
2. High-yield and high-quality salt-producing lands must be protected and prioritized for salt
production.
for use in aquaculture and agricultural production.
2. The use of land with coastal water surface shall comply with the following
provisions: a/ In accordance with the master plans and plans on land use already approved
by competent state
agencies; b) Protect the land, increase the accretion
of coastal land; c) Protection of ecosystems, environment
and landscape; d) Not obstructing the protection of national security and traffic at
sea. Article 141. Alluvial land along rivers and
along the coast 1. Alluvial land along rivers and along the coast includes riverside alluvial
land, river isle land, coastal alluvial land and sea islet land.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 79
a) In case the land is allocated without land use levy within the limit for households,
4. Households and individuals that have been allocated alluvial and coastal alluvial land by the
State before the effective date of this Law for agricultural purposes may continue to use it for the
remaining land allocation period. again. At the end of the land allocation period, if there is a need to
use land, in accordance with the master plan or plan on land use already approved by the Government.
If approved by competent state agencies and do not violate the law on land, the State considers
leasing land.
families and individuals directly engaged in agricultural, forestry, aquaculture or salt production as
prescribed in Clause 1, Article 54 of this Law may continue to use them according to the provisions of
Clause 1, Article 126 of this Law; b) In case land is
allocated without collection of land use levy to households or individuals not directly engaged in
agricultural, forestry, aquaculture, or salt production, upon the expiration of the allocated time limit,
they must switch to renting land. ;
3. Households and individuals using land for farm economy may convert
Alluvial soils along rivers and along the coast are often accreted or often eroded
purposes of land use according to the provisions of law.
managed and protected by the People's Committee of the
district. 3. Alluvial and coastal land is leased by the State to economic organizations, households,
individuals, overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises for project implementation. project
of investment in production, agricultural and non-agricultural business.
4. Households and individuals that are using land for farm economy in accordance with master
plans and plans on land use approved by competent state agencies, without disputes, may continue
to use land according the following provisions:
6. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 142. Land used for farm economy 1. The State
encourages the farm economic form of households and individuals in order to effectively exploit
land for production development, scale expansion and enhancement of production. improve the
efficiency of land use in agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture, salt making in association with
services, processing and consumption of agricultural products.
2. Alluvial, riverside and coastal land belonging to any commune, ward or township shall be used
The People's Committee of that commune shall manage it.
2. Land used for farm economy includes land allocated by the State without collection of land
use levy within the land allocation limit to households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural
production, forestry, aquaculture, and working. salt specified in Article 129 of this Law; land leased by
the State; land leased, transferred, inherited or donated; land contracted by the organization; land
contributed by households and individuals.
5. The State encourages economic organizations, households and individuals to invest in land
riverside and coastal alluvium to use.
Machine Translated by Google
80 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. The allocation of residential land in rural areas in the master plans and plans on land use must
be synchronized with the planning of public works and non-business works to ensure convenience for
production, people's life and sanitation. environment and towards rural modernization.
2. Based on the local land fund and the rural development planning approved by the competent
state agency, the People's Committee of the province shall stipulate the quota of land allocated to each
household and individual to building houses in the countryside; minimum area to be divided into
residential land in accordance with local conditions and practices.
land for non-productive purposes.
3. The State shall have a master plan on land use for housing construction in urban areas, and
adopt policies to create favorable conditions for people living in urban
areas to have a place to live. 4. Provincial-level People's Committees shall, based on land use
plannings, urban construction plannings and local land funds, stipulate quotas for residential land allocated to
4. The State adopts policies to create conditions for people living in rural areas to have
accommodation on the basis of making use of land in available residential areas, limiting the expansion
of residential areas on agricultural land.
Article 144. Residential land in urban areas
Section
3 NON-AGRICULTURE LAND
1. Residential land in urban areas includes land for construction of houses, construction of works
in service of life, gardens and ponds in the same land plot in urban residential areas, in accordance
with the land use planning and regulations. urban construction plans already approved by competent
state agencies. 2. Urban
residential land must be arranged synchronously with land used for construction of public works,
non-business works, ensuring environmental sanitation and modern urban landscape.
Article 143. Residential land in rural
areas 1. Residential land used by households and individuals in rural areas includes land for
construction of houses, construction of works in service of life, gardens and ponds in the same parcel
of land. land in rural residential areas, in accordance with the master plan on land use and construction
planning of rural residential quarters already approved by competent state agencies.
c) In case of using land leased, transferred, inherited, donated or contracted by the State; capital
contributed by households or individuals may continue to use them according to the provisions of this
Law.
5. It is strictly forbidden to take advantage of the farm economy to occupy and accumulate
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 81
3. The Government shall detail the regime of land use for construction of apartment buildings.
Article 146. Land used for embellishment and development of urban centers and residential areas
planning public works, environmental protection.
Competent state agencies approve and comply with regulations on urban order, safety and environmental
protection. Article 145. Land for
construction of apartment buildings
industrial, commercial, service, and non-agricultural production facilities.
rural areas
1. Land used for urban embellishment and development includes land for embellishment of existing
inner cities and inner towns; land planned for urban expansion or new urban development. Land used
for
embellishment and development of rural residential areas includes land for embellishment in existing
residential areas, land belonging to the agricultural land fund used for public purposes, and land planned
for expansion of rural residential areas. village.
When implementing technical infrastructure projects, construction and embellishment of urban
areas and rural residential areas, the State actively recovers land, including land for construction of
infrastructure works and land in sub-zones. according to the master plan and land use plan.
1. Land for construction of apartment buildings, including land for construction of apartment
buildings, construction of works directly serving the lives of households in the apartment building, and
works serving the community according to construction plannings. construction has been approved by
the competent state agency.
2. The use of land for embellishment and development of urban centers and rural residential areas
must be consistent with master plans, land use plans, urban construction plannings, and construction
plannings of rural residential quarters that have been approved. approved by competent state agencies
and construction regulations and standards promulgated by competent state agencies. 3. Provinciallevel People's
Committees organize the formulation and assign economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese
and foreign-invested enterprises to implement projects in accordance with law for embellishment. or
build new urban areas, new rural residential areas. Land for these projects must be allocated
synchronously in master plans and plans on land use for the whole region, including land used for
infrastructure construction, residential land, and land for construction of public works. , works
2. The planning of land for construction of apartment buildings must be in sync with the master plan
each household or individual builds their own house if they are not eligible for land allocation under the
housing construction investment project; Minimum area to be divided for residential land.
5. The conversion of residential land to land for construction of production and business
establishments must conform to the approved master plans, plans on land use and urban construction planning.
Machine Translated by Google
82 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security are responsible for coordinating with
the People's Committees of provinces in the process of making master plans and plans on land use for national
defense and security purposes, ensuring compliance with economic development requirements. - society,
strengthening national defense and security; review and determine the boundaries of land used for defense and
security purposes; determine the location and area of land for defense and security that no longer needs to be
used or used for improper purposes in order to hand it over to the locality for management and use.
careers in economic, cultural, social, health, education and training, physical training and sports, science and
technology, environment, diplomacy and other non-business works.
3. The use of land specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article must be consistent with master plans, plans
on land use, urban construction plannings, and rural residential area construction plannings approved by housing
authorities. approved country.
3. For areas included in the master plan on land use for national defense and security purposes but have
no need to use them for national defense and security purposes, the current land users may continue to use the
land until they have no need to use the land for national defense and security purposes. there is a decision on
land acquisition by a competent state agency but must not deform the natural terrain.
to preserve the allocated and leased land areas and to use the land for the right purposes.
political and social organization.
education and training, physical training and sports, science and technology, environment.
Article 148. Land used for national defense and security purposes 1. Land
used for national defense and security purposes includes land used for the purposes specified in Article 61
of this Law. 2. Provincial-level People's Committees perform the
state management of land use
2. Land for construction of public works, including land for construction of public works
used for national defense and security purposes within the local administrative management area.
business for other purposes.
5. The State encourages the use of land for the purposes of cultural development, health care,
4. Communities build and embellish works serving the common interests of the community with capital
contributed by the people or supported by the State
the voluntary contribution of land use rights, compensation or support shall be agreed upon by the residential
community and the land user. Article 147. Land for
construction of offices of agencies and non-business facilities 1. Land for
construction of agencies' offices includes land for headquarters of state agencies and main organizations.
4. Heads of agencies or organizations that are allocated or leased land have the responsibility
4. The Government shall detail this Article.
It is strictly forbidden to use land to build office buildings or to build public works
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 83
floors for common use in industrial parks, industrial clusters and export processing zones.
Investors are exempted from land rent for the land area for construction of infrastructure
When planning and establishing an industrial park or an export processing zone, it must concurrently
make planning and building residential areas and public works located outside the industrial parks and
export processing zones to serve the lives of workers working in the zones. industrial and export processing
zones.
4. Land users in industrial parks, industrial clusters and export processing zones must use the land
for the right purposes, and be granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other
assets attached to it. attached to the land and has the rights and obligations prescribed by this Law.
3. Economic organizations, households, individuals, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested
enterprises investing in production and business in industrial parks, industrial clusters, processing zones
Producers may sublease land associated with infrastructure from other economic organizations, overseas
Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises investing in the construction and business of infrastructure and
have other rights, the following obligations: a) In case of sub-leasing land with one-off payment of land
rental for the entire lease period, they have
the rights and obligations specified in Article 174 of this Law; b) In case of sub-leasing land with
annual rental payment, they have the following rights and obligations
5. Economic organizations, households, individuals and overseas Vietnamese who invest in
production and business in industrial parks, industrial clusters or export processing zones have been
allocated land or transferred by the State. concession of land use rights associated with infrastructure of
other economic organizations, overseas Vietnamese investing
2. The State leases land to economic organizations and Vietnamese residing in Vietnam
construction and business infrastructure of industrial parks, industrial clusters, processing zones
services specified in Article 175 of this Law.
If issued before the effective date of this Law, they may continue to use the land for the remaining term of
the project without having to change to land lease. When the time expires
foreign investors, foreign-invested enterprises to invest in the construction and business of infrastructure
of industrial parks, industrial clusters and export processing zones. For the land leased area with annual
land rental payment, the person to whom the land is leased by the State has the right to sublease the land
in the form of annual land rental payment; For the part of the land leased area with one-time payment of
land rent for the entire lease period, the person who is leased land by the State has the right to sublease
the land in the form of one-off payment of land rent for the entire lease period or payment of rent. land
every year.
Article 149. Land of industrial parks, export processing zones, industrial clusters, craft villages
1. The use of land for construction of industrial parks, export processing zones, industrial clusters
and craft villages must conform to master plans, plans on land use and detailed construction planning
already approved by competent state agencies. approve.
Machine Translated by Google
84 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
infrastructure in the hi-tech park and encourage organizations, individuals, overseas Vietnamese and
foreign-invested enterprises to use land for the purpose of scientific and technological development.
In case of transferring the land use right in the hi-tech park, the
2. The hi-tech park management board is allocated land by the provincial-level People's
Committees of the hi-tech park. The management board of the hi-tech park may lease land to
organizations, individuals, overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises using land in the hitech park in accordance with this Law. .
3. The management board of the high-tech zone shall elaborate the detailed construction planning of the zone
The transferee must continue to use the land for the specified purpose.
5. Hi-tech park development enterprises and infrastructure development enterprises are leased
land by the Hi-tech Park Management Board; Persons who have demand to use land in hi-tech parks
may sublease land from hi-tech park development enterprises or infrastructure development enterprises.
Prime Minister covers land with different use regimes in service of production and trading of high-tech
products; research, development and application of high technology; Hi-tech human resource training.
6. Land users in the high-tech park must use the land for the right purposes stated in the land
lease contract, and be granted a certificate of land use rights and ownership of houses and other landattached assets. and have rights and obligations
When planning and setting up a hi-tech park, it is required to concurrently make planning and
build housing areas and public works located outside the hi-tech park to serve the lives of experts and
employees working in the hi-tech park. High.
under the provisions of this Law.
to build and develop hi-tech parks according to the approved planning.
8. The determination of land rental prices and the calculation of land rent collection in the technology park
comply with the provisions of this Law.
4. Land users who are leased land by the Hi-tech Park Management Board in the hi-tech park
have the same rights and obligations as if they were leased land by the State in accordance with this
Law.
If there is a need for project implementation, the State will consider leasing land according to the
provisions of this Law.
6. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 150. Land used for high-tech parks 1. Land used
for high-tech parks under the establishment decision of the Prime Minister
Provincial-level People's Committees allocate land to the Management Board of the Hi-Tech Park to organize
7. The State encourages organizations, overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises
to invest in construction and business of infrastructure
high technology and submit it to the People's Committee of the province where the land is located for approval.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 85
6. Land use regime, rights and obligations of land users in the area
5. The State encourages investment in construction and business of infrastructure in the country
The construction and opening of new economic zones must be consistent with the overall planning
system of economic zones throughout the country.
economic zones and encourage land use for economic development purposes.
4. Land users in economic zones may invest in construction, trade in houses and infrastructure, produce,
trade and provide services and have the following rights and obligations: a) If the land in the economic zone is
reassigned by the
management board of the economic zone,
border gates are established under the Prime Minister's decision. Land used for economic zones is the land area
used for functional areas, including: tax-free zones
8. The Government shall detail this Article.
the rights and obligations as assigned by the State in accordance with this Law;
customs, tax-suspension areas, export processing zones, industrial parks, entertainment zones, tourist areas, urban
areas, residential areas, administrative areas and other functional areas suitable to the characteristics of each
economic zone in order to create a particularly favorable business and investment environment for investors.
b) In case land is leased by the economic zone management board by the economic zone management
board, they have the same rights and obligations as if they were leased land by the State in accordance with this Law.
may re-allocate land with collection of land use levy, re-allocate land without collection of land use levy, or lease
land to persons wishing to use land in functional zones of economic zones as prescribed in Articles 54 and 55 and
56 of this Act.
7. Economic organizations, households, individuals and overseas Vietnamese investing in production and
business in economic zones that have been allocated land or transferred by the State to the organization. Other
economic organizations, Vietnamese residing overseas before the effective date of this Law may continue to use
the land for the remaining term of the project, without having to change to land lease. At the end of the project
implementation period
If there is a need, the Management Board of the economic zone will consider leasing land according to the
provisions of this Law.
The duration of land use for production and business in the economic zone must not exceed 70 years.
Article 151. Land used for economic zones
1. Land used for economic zones includes land for construction of economic zones and economic zones
2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall allocate land to economic zone management boards to organize
the construction of the economic zone according to the approved land use plan in the detailed construction planning
of the economic zone.
economic conditions applicable to each type of land in accordance with this Law.
3. The economic zone management board is responsible for performing the compensation and ground
clearance for the land area recovered by the competent state agency for assignment before the land is re-allocated
or leased. Management of economic zones
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 eighty six
non-agricultural production establishments through the form of land lease by the State; receive the transfer
of land use rights, lease land, sub-lease land, receive capital contribution with land use rights of organizations
Land for non-agricultural production establishments includes land for construction of non-agricultural production establishments
3. The use of land for mineral activities must comply with the following provisions: a) Having a license
for mineral
activities and a decision to lease land for mineral exploration and extraction or a decision to lease land
for mining purposes. as a ground for mineral processing by competent state agencies according to the
Government's regulations;
b) Implement measures for environmental protection, waste treatment and other measures
2. Commercial and service land use; the land of non-agricultural production establishments must
conform to master plans, plans on land use, urban construction plannings, construction plannings of rural
residential quarters already approved by competent state agencies and other relevant regulations. regulations
on environmental protection.
Article 153. Commercial and service land; land for non-agricultural production
establishments 1. Commercial and service land, including land for construction of commercial business establishmenForeigners are allowed to carry out mineral exploration and exploitation projects.
non-agricultural production establishments through the form of land lease by the State; land rental,
services and other works in service of business, commerce and services.
Land used as ground for mineral processing belongs to the type of non-agricultural production and
business land with the same land use regime as commercial and service land, land of non-agricultural
production establishments specified in Article 153 of this Law. .
agriculture located outside industrial parks, industrial clusters and export processing zones.
land users shall return the land in accordance with the schedule of mineral exploration and exploitation and
the state of the topsoil specified in the land lease contract; d) In case of mineral
exploration and exploitation without using topsoil
economic organizations, other households and individuals, overseas Vietnamese; sublease land associated
with infrastructure of foreign-invested enterprises.
Overseas Vietnamese using commercial and service land; earth
or does not affect the use of the ground, the land is not leased.
Article 152. Land used for mineral activities 1. Land used for
mineral activities includes land for mineral exploration, extraction and processing and areas of auxiliary
works for mineral and operating activities. safety corridor in mineral activities. 2. Land for mineral exploration
and exploitation is leased by the State to organizations
organizations, individuals, overseas Vietnamese, enterprises with investment capital
other so as not to cause damage to land users in and around the area;
3. Economic organizations, households and individuals using land for commercial or service purposes; earth
c) Use land in accordance with the mineral exploration and exploitation schedule; historian
Machine Translated by Google
eighty seven NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
b) Take necessary measures so as not to cause damage to production and life and adversely
affect the environment, flow and traffic; c) Land users are responsible for
returning land in accordance with the exploitation schedule
production of building materials, making ceramics of competent state agencies;
Foreign-invested enterprises using commercial and service land; land for non-agricultural
production establishments through the form of land lease by the State; lease or sub-lease land from
economic organizations or overseas Vietnamese; sublease land associated with infrastructure of
foreign-invested enterprises. Article 154. Land for production of building materials
and pottery 1. Land for production of building materials and ceramics
includes land, land with water surface for extraction of raw materials and land for processing and
production. producing building materials, making ceramics.
for the production of bricks and tiles, making ceramics:
Materials and ground conditions are specified in the land lease contract.
a) Land with classified historical-cultural relics or scenic spots; or
The use of land to exploit raw materials for the production of bricks, tiles and ceramics must take
advantage of hilly soils, uncultivated mounds, wastelands, riverbeds or ponds and lakes that need to
be deepened, and riverside land. no agricultural production, dyke land no longer in use, land due to
field improvement. 2. Land, land with water surface for
exploitation of raw materials shall be leased by the State to households and individuals permitted
to exploit raw materials for the production of building materials and pottery; for economic organizations,
overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises, they are allowed to carry out investment
projects on exploitation of raw materials for the production of building materials and ceramics. Land
used as ground for production of construction materials and ceramics
belongs to the type of land for non-agricultural production and business with the prescribed land
use regime such as commercial land, service land, land for non-agricultural production establishments.
in Article 153 of this Law.
protected under the decision of the People's Committee of the province or city under central
authority; b) Land is located within the safety corridor of the works.
4. It is strictly forbidden to use the following types of land for exploitation as raw materials
3. The use of land for the production of building materials and pottery must comply with the
following provisions: a)
There is a decision to lease the land for the purpose of raw material extraction, processing,
sublease land from other economic organizations, households, individuals and overseas Vietnamese;
sublease land associated with infrastructure of foreign-invested enterprises. Overseas Vietnamese
who are specified in Clause 1, Article 186 of this Law may also inherit or be given land use rights for
their own purposes.
as ground for construction of non-agricultural production, trade and service establishments.
Machine Translated by Google
88 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. The State assigns investors to manage land areas for the implementation of buildtransfer (BT) projects; allocate or lease land to investors for the implementation of buildoperate-transfer (BOT) projects and other forms in accordance with the law on investment.
rural areas have been approved by competent state agencies. 2. For
land used for public purposes, detailed construction planning must be formulated,
clearly delineating functional areas used for public purposes without commercial purposes
and functional areas for use. for public purposes for business purposes. For land in
functional areas without business
purposes, the State shall allocate land without collection of land use levy as prescribed
in Article 54 of this Law; for business purposes, the State shall lease land according to the
provisions of Article 56 of this Law.
build-transfer and build-operate-transfer projects
other of the airport;
c) Land for construction of facilities and works in service of aviation service business in Vietnam
4. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 156. Land for airports and civil airfields 1. Land
in service of civil aviation activities at airports and airfields includes: a) Land for
construction
of headquarters of state agencies that operate regularly. at airports and airfields; b)
Land for construction
of items of airport and aerodrome infrastructure, including land for construction of
runways, taxiways, aprons, aircraft facilities
airports, airfields;
1. The use of land for public purposes must be consistent with master plans and plans
d) Land for construction of works in service of non-aviation service business.
ensure flight operations, ensure aviation security, airport emergency, fences, service roads,
internal port roads and auxiliary works and areas
2. The airport authority shall be allocated land by the provincial-level People's
Committee according to the master plan, land use plan and the master plan on airports
and airfields already approved by competent state agencies. Certificate of land use right, ownership
land use planning, urban construction planning, residential area construction planning
5. In the process of using land to exploit raw materials for the production of bricks,
tiles and pottery, land users must apply appropriate technological measures to exploit and
use land rationally and economically; must take necessary measures so as not to cause
damage to production and life of the surrounding land users and not to adversely affect
the environment.
Article 155. Land used for public purposes; land for project implementation
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 89
b) To use assets under their ownership attached to the leased land as mortgage at credit
institutions licensed to operate in Vietnam; may sell or lease assets or contribute capital with
their own assets attached to the leased land.
giving, leasing land use rights, mortgaging, contributing capital with land use rights;
a) Allocate land without collection of land use levy for the land specified at Points a and b,
Clause 1 of this Article;
3. People who are currently using legally recognized land and that land is located within
the work safety protection corridor may continue to use the land according to the determined
purposes and must not obstruct the protection of the land. project safety.
5. The Government shall detail this Article.
Article 157. Land for construction of public works with safety corridors 1. Land for
construction of public works with safety corridors, including land for construction of traffic,
irrigation, and dike systems, water supply system, drainage system, waste treatment system,
electrical system, petroleum, gas pipeline, communication and land in the safety corridor of
these works.
In case the use of land affects the protection of the safety of the works, the work owners
and land users must take remedial measures. under the law.
b) Leasing land with annual rental payment for the land specified at Points c and d, Clause
1 of this Article. The calculation of land rent and collection of land rent shall comply with the
provisions of this Law.
4. Agencies or organizations directly managing works with safety corridors shall have to
publicly announce the landmarks of the work safety corridors and take main responsibility for
the safety of works. ; protection corridor case
2. The use of land for construction of public works with safety corridors must ensure the
combination of exploitation of both aerial and underground parts, arrangement of different
types of works on the same land area in order to save money. to save land and to comply with
the provisions of relevant specialized laws on construction safety protection.
4. Organizations and individuals using land at airports and airfields have the following
rights and
obligations: a) Use the land for the right purposes; cannot be exchanged, transferred, or given away
houses and other properties attached to land in service of civil aviation activities at airports and
airfields shall be granted to the Airport Authority.
3. Based on the master plan and plan on land use approved by the state management
agency in charge of civil aviation, the Airport Authority shall allocate land without collection of
land use levy or lease land according to the following provisions:
Machine Translated by Google
90 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
6. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
158. Land with historical-cultural relics, scenic spots 1. Land with historicalcultural relics and scenic spots that have been ranked or decided to protect by provincial-level
People's Committees must be strictly managed according to the following regulations:
If a family, individual or community directly manages the land according to the provisions of the law on
cultural heritage, such organization, household, individual or community shall have the main responsibility
for the use of land. have historical - cultural relics, scenic spots; b) For land with historical-cultural relics or
scenic spots
other than those specified at Point a of this Clause, the commune-level People's Committees of the
localities where the historical-cultural relics or scenic spots are located shall be responsible for: main
responsibility in the management of land areas with historical - cultural relics and scenic spots;
c) For land with historical-cultural relics, scenic spots that is encroached on, occupied, used for
improper purposes or illegally used, the chairperson of the commune-level People's Committee of the
locality where the land is located shall be responsible for: detection, prevention and timely handling.
a) For land with historical-cultural relics, scenic spots owned by organizations or households,
If the safety of construction works is illegally encroached, occupied or used, it must promptly report and
request the commune-level People's Committee where the safety corridor is illegally encroached, occupied
or used for handling.
5. The People's Committees of all levels where the works have safety corridors shall coordinate with
the agencies and organizations directly managing the works in propagating and disseminating the law on
construction safety protection. ; publicly announce the land use boundary markers in the work safety
protection corridor; promptly handle cases of illegal encroachment, occupation and use of safety corridors
of works.
2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall, based on the State's religious policies, master plans
and plans on land use approved by competent state agencies, decide on the land area to be allocated to
religious establishments.
2. In special cases where it is necessary to use land with historical-cultural relics or scenic spots for
other purposes, the change of purpose must be consistent with the master plans and plans on land use
already approved by the authority. approved by competent state agencies and must have written approval
from state agencies competent to decide on the ranking of such historical - cultural relics and scenic spots.
Article 159. Land for religious establishments 1. Land for religious establishments includes land
belonging to
pagodas, churches, chapels,
sanctuaries, sanctuaries, Buddhist meditation halls, monasteries, religious training schools, and
headquarters of religious institutions. religious organizations and other religious establishments permitted
to operate by the State.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 91
course; does not obstruct waterway traffic.
c) The State leases land in rivers, streams, canals, canals and streams with annual rental payment to overseas
Vietnamese and enterprises with investment capital.
3. The construction and expansion of communal houses, temples, shrines, ambulatory buildings, from roads, houses
The community's surname worship must be approved by the competent state agency. Article 161. Land
for construction of underground works 1. The use of land
for the construction of underground works must be consistent with the planning on construction of underground
works, master plans, plans on land use and other relevant plannings already approved. approved by the competent
authority. 2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall decide to allocate or lease land
for underground construction in accordance with the Government's regulations. Article 162. Land for
cemeteries and graveyards 1. Land used for cemeteries and
graveyards must be planned into concentrated areas,
consistent with land use plannings, far from residential areas, and convenient for burials and visits. , hygienic,
environmental protection and land saving. 2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall stipulate land levels and
management regimes for the construction of graves, monuments and memorials
in cemeteries and graveyards to ensure thrift and adopt policies to encourage non-use of burials. land use.
foreign countries to implement aquaculture investment projects.
Specialized springs and water surface shall be managed and used according to the following regulations:
land use planning, urban construction planning, residential area construction planning
b) The State leases land in rivers, streams, canals, canals and streams with the collection of land rent
rural areas have been approved by competent state agencies.
years for economic organizations, households and individuals for aquaculture;
Article 163. Land for special-use rivers, streams, canals, canals, streams and water surfaces
1. Based on the identified main use purposes, land for rivers, streams, canals, canals,
a) The State assigns organizations to manage, combine use, exploit land with water surface exclusively for nonagricultural purposes or non-agricultural in combination with aquaculture and fishing;
Article 160.- Belief land 1. Belief
land includes land with works of communal houses, temples, shrines, amphitheater, from the road, and their church.
2. The use of religious land must be for the right purposes and in accordance with the master plans and plans
3. It is strictly forbidden to set up cemeteries or graveyards in contravention of plannings and plans on land use
2. The exploitation and use of land of rivers, streams, canals, canals, streams and specialized water surfaces
must ensure that it does not affect the identified main purposes of use; must comply with technical regulations of
relevant sectors and fields and regulations on protection of landscape and environment; does not impede the free flow
land use has been approved by the competent state agency.
Machine Translated by Google
92 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Chapter XI
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF LAND USERS
3. The management of unused land shall comply with the Government's regulations.
Article 165. Putting unused land into use 1. Based
on master plans and plans on land use already approved by competent state agencies,
People's Committees at all levels shall have plans for investment and reclamation. , restore and
improve land to put unused land into use.
Article 166. General rights of land users 1. To be
granted certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets.
Section 1
2. Enjoy the fruits of labor and investment results on land.
2. The State encourages organizations, households and individuals to invest in order to put
unused land into use according to master plans and plans on land use already approved by
competent state agencies.
3. To enjoy benefits from State works in service of the protection and improvement of
agricultural land. 4.
To be guided and assisted by the State in the reclamation and reclamation of agricultural
land. 5. To be
protected by the State when other people infringe upon their lawful rights and interests in
land. 6. To be
compensated when the State recovers land according to the provisions of this Law.
GENERAL RULES
7. Complaints, denunciations and lawsuits about violations of land use rights
their own law and other acts violating the law on land.
3. For land areas that are planned to be used for agricultural purposes, priority shall be given to
households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural production, forestry, aquaculture and salt
production in the locality which have not yet been allocated. land allocation or lack of productive land.
Section
4 UNUSED LAND
Article 164. Management of unused land
1. The commune-level People's Committees shall have to manage and protect unused land
in their localities and register them in the cadastral
records. 2. Provincial People's Committees shall manage unused land on uninhabited islands.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 93
If a member of the group of land users is an economic organization, they shall have the same
rights and obligations as the rights and obligations of an economic organization in accordance with
this Law;
b) In the case of a group of land users in which the land use right is divided into parts for each
member of the group, if each member of the group wishes to exercise the right to his or her share of
the land use right, he/she must perform the following procedures:
procedures for division of plots according to regulations, procedures for issuance of certificates of
land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets, and exercise of rights and
obligations of land users in accordance with this Law. This.
1. Land users may exercise the rights to exchange, transfer, lease, sublease, inherit, donate,
mortgage or contribute land use rights as capital in accordance with this Law.
b) Contracts for lease or sub-lease of land use rights, land use rights and land-attached assets,
contracts for conversion of agricultural land use rights; a notarized contract for the transfer of land
use rights, land use rights and assets attached to land, properties attached to land, which one party
or the parties to the transaction is a real estate business organization. or authenticate at the request
of the parties; c) Documents on inheritance of land use rights, land use rights and attached assets
In case the land use rights of a group of land users cannot be divided into parts, they shall
authorize a representative to perform the rights and perform the obligations.
with land notarized or authenticated according to the provisions of civil law;
2. Groups of land users who share the same land use rights shall have the following rights and
obligations: a) A group
of land users including households and individuals shall have the following rights and obligations.
d) The notarization shall be carried out at notarial practice organizations, the authentication
shall be carried out at the commune-level People's Committees.
group of land users.
Article 167. Right to convert, transfer, lease, sublease, redundancy
Article 168. Time to exercise the rights of land users 1. Land users may exercise the
rights to transfer, lease, sublease, donate, mortgage or contribute land use rights as capital
when available. Certificate
rights and obligations of households and individuals under this Law.
design, donate, mortgage or contribute land use rights as capital
3. The notarization and authentication of contracts and documents to exercise rights of land
users shall be performed as follows: a) Contracts
for transfer, donation, mortgage or capital contribution with land use rights or rights the use of
land and properties attached to land must be notarized or authenticated, except for the case of real
estate business specified at Point b of this Clause;
Machine Translated by Google
ninety four NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
dd) Overseas Vietnamese are eligible to own houses in Vietnam
land use through inheritance of land use rights;
In case the land user is allowed to delay the performance of financial obligations or is entitled
to debit the financial obligations, the financial obligations must be fulfilled before exercising the
rights.
According to the law on housing, Vietnam is entitled to receive the transfer of residential land use
rights through the form of purchase, lease purchase, inheritance or donation of houses attached
to residential land use rights or receiving the right to use residential land. use residential land in
housing
development projects; e) Economic organizations, joint-venture enterprises receive land use
right transfer by receiving capital contribution in the form of land use rights;
2. The time when the person performing the transfer of land use rights in the investment
project, construction and business of housing for sale or lease; transfer the land use right and
concurrently transfer the entire project, for infrastructure construction investment projects
floors for transfer or lease after obtaining the Certificate and meeting the conditions prescribed in
Article 194 of this Law. Article 169. Receiving
land use rights 1. The recipients of land
use rights are prescribed as follows: a) Households and individuals
may receive the transfer of agricultural land use rights through the conversion of land use
rights specified in Clause 1 of this Article. Point b, Clause 1, Article 179 of this Law; b) Economic
organizations, households and individuals may receive the transfer of land use rights through the
transfer of land use rights, except for the case specified in Article 191 of this Law; overseas
Vietnamese may receive land use right transfer through receipt of land use right transfer in
industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones, hi-tech parks, and economic zones.
Foreign-invested enterprises may receive the transfer of investment capital which is the value of
land use rights according to the Government's regulations; c) Organizations, households,
individuals and communities
may receive land use right transfer through donation of land use rights as prescribed at Point
c, Clause 2, Article 174 and Point e, Clause 1, Article 179 of this Decree. this Law, except for the
case specified in Article 191 of this Law; d) Organizations, households, individuals and communities
that are entitled to transfer of rights
receive. In the case of conversion of agricultural land use rights, the
land use rights are exercised after a decision on land allocation or land lease is issued; In case of
inheriting land use rights, land users may exercise their rights when they obtain a Certificate or
meet all conditions for issuance of a Certificate of land use rights, ownership of houses and other
land-attached assets. .
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 95
m) Organization is a new legal entity formed through separation or merger under a decision of a
competent agency or organization or a document on the separation or merger of an economic
organization in accordance with law. received the right to use
common land use;
l) Residential communities and religious establishments may receive land use rights according to
the results of successful conciliation of land disputes recognized by competent People's Committees;
decisions of competent state agencies on settlement of land disputes, complaints and denunciations
about land, decisions or judgments of people's courts, judgment enforcement decisions of judgment
enforcement agencies be enforced;
i) Organizations, households, individuals, residential communities and religious establishments
may receive land use rights through the State's recognition of land use rights for land that is being used
stably; k) Organizations, households,
individuals, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises may receive land use rights
according to the results of successful conciliation on land disputes approved by the People's Committee
of Vietnam. recognized by competent people; agreement in the mortgage contract for debt settlement;
decisions of competent state agencies on settlement of land disputes, complaints and denunciations
Article 170. General obligations of land users 1. To use land
for the right purposes, within the boundaries of the land plot, in accordance with the regulations on use
land use from organizations that are legal entities are split or merged.
Use depth in the ground and height in the air, protect underground public facilities and comply with other
provisions of relevant laws.
reports on land, decisions or judgments of the People's Courts, judgment enforcement decisions of
judgment enforcement agencies that have been executed; written recognition of the auction results of
land use rights in accordance with the law; document on separation of use rights
2. Households and individuals may receive the transfer of land use rights regardless of their place
of residence, except for the cases specified in Clauses 3 and 4, Article 191 and 192 of this Law.
land use in accordance with the law for households or groups of people with the right to use land
g) Organizations, households, individuals, residential communities, religious establishments, Vietnamese people
Males residing abroad are entitled to receive land use rights through land allocation by the State; foreigninvested enterprises receive land use rights through the State's allocation of land for the implementation
of investment projects to build houses for sale or for sale in combination with lease; h) Economic
organizations, self-financed public
non-business organizations, households, individuals, overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested
enterprises, foreign organizations with the following functions: Diplomats are entitled to receive land use
rights through land lease by the State;
Machine Translated by Google
96 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
7. Re-allocate land when the State issues a decision on land recovery, when the land use term expires
land use without extension of use by a competent state agency. Article 171. Restricted use
right to adjacent land parcels
4. Take measures to protect the land.
2. Economic organizations, self-financed public non-business organizations, households, individuals,
overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises which are leased land by the State and paid for by the
State. the annual land rent shall be converted to land lease with one-off payment of land rent for the whole
lease period and the specific land price must be re-determined to calculate the land rent at the time of
issuance of a decision permitting the conversion to land lease in the form of land rental. pay a one-off land
rental for the entire lease period as prescribed by this Law.
1. The limited use right to the adjacent land parcel includes the right to the right of way; water supply
and drainage; watering and draining water in cultivation; gas supply; electricity transmission lines,
telecommunications and other necessary needs reasonably on the adjacent parcel of land.
Section 2
5. Comply with regulations on environmental protection, without harming the legitimate interests of
relevant land users.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF LAND USING ORGANIZATIONS
2. The establishment of limited use rights to the adjacent land parcel shall comply with the provisions
of the civil law and registration must be carried out according to the provisions of Article 95 of this Law.
Article 172.
Right to choose the form of land rent payment 1. Economic
organizations, self-financed public non-business organizations, households, individuals, overseas
Vietnamese, capital enterprises Foreign investors specified in Clause 1, Article 56 of this Law may choose
the form of renting land with annual rental payment or renting land with one-off rental payment for the entire
lease period.
Article 173. Rights and obligations of organizations to which land is allocated by the State
without land use levy 1.
Organizations that are allocated land by the State without land use levy have the general rights and
obligations specified in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law.
6. Comply with the provisions of the law on finding objects in the ground.
2. To make land registration declarations; to complete all procedures when converting, transferring,
leasing, subleasing, inheriting or donating land use rights; mortgage or contribute capital with land use rights
as prescribed by law.
3. To fulfill financial obligations as prescribed by law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 97
4. Organizations allocated land by the State with collection of land use levy or leased land with payment
2. Economic organizations that are allocated land by the State with the collection of land use levy or
leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period in addition to the rights and obligations
specified in Clause 1 of this Article also have the following rights: :
a) Transfer of land use rights and assets under their ownership attached to land; b) Leasing land use
rights and
assets under their ownership attached to land in the case of being allocated land by the State with
collection of land use levy; sublease land use rights and assets under their ownership attached to land in
case the State leases land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period;
one-off land rental for the entire lease period, but exempted or reduced from land use levy or land rent, have
the following rights and obligations:
the one-off land rental for the entire lease period and the paid land rent is not sourced from the state budget,
they have the rights and obligations specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article; The exercise of rights must
be approved in writing by the authority
use land, lease land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period
competent state agency.
1. Economic organizations that are allocated land by the State with land use levy, or leased land with
one-off rental payment for the entire lease period have the general rights and obligations specified in Articles
166 and 170 of this Law.
In case a self-financed public non-business organization is leased land by the State with one-off rental
payment for the entire lease period and the paid land rent is derived from the state budget, it has the rights
and obligations prescribed in Article 173 of this Law.
foreign, foreign-invested enterprises in accordance with the provisions of law.
3. Self-financed public non-business organizations with land lease payments from the State
2. Organizations that are allocated land by the State without collection of land use levy have no right to
exchange, transfer, donate or lease land use rights; position
mortgage, contribute capital with land use rights; shall not be compensated for land when the State recovers
the land. Article 174.
Rights and obligations of organizations allocated land by the State with collection of money
c) Donate land use rights to the State; donate land use rights to residential communities for the
construction of works serving the common interests of the community; donate to houses of gratitude attached
to land according to the provisions of law;
d) Mortgage with their land use rights and properties attached to the land at credit institutions licensed
to operate in Vietnam; dd) Contributing capital with land use rights and assets
under their ownership attached to land for production and business cooperation with organizations,
individuals and Vietnamese residing in Vietnam.
Machine Translated by Google
98 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Article 176. Rights and obligations of the transferee economic organization
2. Economic organizations and public non-business organizations using land leased from organizations,
households and individuals outside industrial parks, industrial clusters or export processing zones shall have
the rights and obligations as prescribed by law. civil law.
c) In case of being allocated or leased land by the State for the implementation of an investment project;
land use rights, change of land use purpose 1. Economic
organizations that receive land use rights transfer or change land use purposes have the general rights
and obligations specified in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law.
For profit purposes other than those specified at Point a of this Clause but exempt from land use levy or land
rent, they have the same rights and obligations as prescribed by land law as in the case of land lease by the
State. pay annual land rent for the type of land with the corresponding use purpose. Article 175. Rights and
obligations of economic organizations and public non-business
organizations that use land leased with annual rental payment 1. Economic organizations and
public non-business organizations that are leased land with
collection by the State an annual land lease has the following rights and obligations: a) General rights
and obligations specified in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Mortgage
of assets under their ownership attached to leased land at credit institutions licensed to operate in
Vietnam; c) Sell properties under their ownership attached to the leased land when fully meeting the
conditions specified in Article 189 of this Law; the buyer
of the property shall continue to lease the land from the State according to the defined purpose;
d) Contributing capital with their own assets attached to the leased land; the recipient of capital
contribution with the property shall continue to lease the land from the State according to the defined purpose;
dd) Sub-lease land use
rights in the form of annual land rental payment for land with which infrastructure has been completed,
in case it is permitted to invest in construction and business of infrastructure for land in public parks. industrial
zones, industrial clusters, export processing zones, high-tech zones, economic zones.
a) In case land is allocated or leased by the State for implementation of a housing construction and
business project and is exempted or reduced from land use levy or land rent, they have the rights and
obligations prescribed by the law on land use rights and obligations. land, such as in the case of not being
exempted or not entitled to a reduction of land use levy or land rent; b) In case the
State allocates or leases land for the implementation of an investment project
For profit purposes other than those specified at Point a of this Clause, and are entitled to a reduction in land
use levy or land rent, they have the same rights and obligations as prescribed by the land law as if they are
not exempted or not. be entitled to a reduction in land use levy and land rent for the type of land with
corresponding use purposes;
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 99
b) In case an economic organization is leased land by the State with the collection of monthly land rent
4. Rights and obligations of economic organizations using land that are permitted by a competent state
agency to change the land use purpose from land without land use levy to land with collection of land use
levy or land lease a) In case an economic organization is allocated land by the State with the collection of
land use levy or
leases it with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period, it has the rights and obligations
specified in Clause 1 of this Article. 2 Article 174 of this Law;
have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 2, Article 174 of this Law;
land use; land use rights of economic organizations upon dissolution or bankruptcy
Article 177. Rights and obligations of economic organizations receiving capital contributions with the right to use capital
1. Economic organizations that receive capital contributions with land use rights from other households,
individuals or economic organizations have the rights and obligations specified in Article 174 of this Law in
the following cases: a) Land of capitalcontributing economic organizations is originally allocated by the State with the collection of land use
levy or leased by the State with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period, due to the receipt of land
use right transfer; b) Land of households and individuals contributing capital but
not land owned by the State
b) In case of receiving the transfer and changing the purpose of land use and falling into the case of
being allocated land by the State with the collection of land use levy or leased land with payment for it;
lease with annual rental payment.
years, they have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 1, Article 175 of this Law.
2. The land use rights of the cooperative upon dissolution or bankruptcy shall comply with the following
provisions:
a/ For land allocated by the State without land use levy; land allocated by the State with the collection
of land use levy or leased land by purchasing assets attached to the land
one-off land rental for the entire lease period, they have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 2,
Article 174 of this Law; c) In case the
land is transferred and the land use purpose is changed, and the land is leased by the State with
annual rental payment, they have the rights and obligations prescribed in Article 175 of this Law.
2. Economic organizations that receive the transfer of land use rights originating from the State
allocated land with the collection of land use levy or leased land by the State with one-off payment in
advance for the entire lease period, but the land use levy or money are paid in advance by the State. If the
paid land renter does not originate from the state budget, he/she has the rights and obligations specified in
Clause 2, Article 174 of this Law.
3. Economic organizations that receive the transfer of agricultural land use rights as prescribed by law
have the following rights and obligations: a) In case of receiving the assignment
and not changing the land use purpose,
Machine Translated by Google
100 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Article 179. Rights and obligations of households and individuals using land 1.
Households and individuals using agricultural land allocated by the State within the limit; land
allocated by the State with collection of land use levy, leased out with one-off rental payment for the entire
lease term, and recognized by the State with land use rights; land that is converted, transferred, donated
or inherited has the following rights and obligations: a) General rights and obligations specified in Articles
166 and 170 of this Law; b) Conversion
of agricultural land use rights in the same commune, ward or town
3. Land use rights of economic organizations being enterprises upon dissolution or bankruptcy
handled in accordance with the law.
town with other households and individuals;
Section 3
one-time payment for the entire lease period, due to the purchase of assets attached to land or the receipt
of a lawful transfer of land use rights from another person but the land use levy, land rent, purchase of
land-attached assets, money transfer the right to use
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF HOUSEHOLDS, INDIVIDUAL,
land use not sourced from the state budget; If the land is contributed by members with the right to use in
the cooperative, the State will not recover the land, the land use right belongs to the cooperative and shall
be handled according to the cooperative's charter and the resolution of the general meeting of members.
RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY USE LAND
2. In case of land lease with annual rental payment, they have rights and obligations
as economic organizations specified in Clause 1, Article 175 of this Law.
or receive a legal land use right transfer from another person with a history of
land use, land rent, purchase of land-attached assets, money for receipt of land use right transfer
originating from the state budget, such land shall be recovered by the State; b) For land allocated by the
State with collection of land use levy or land lease payment
Article 178. Rights and obligations of economic organizations that are entitled to lease land
for construction of
underground works Economic organizations that are leased land by the State to invest in the
construction of underground works have the following
rights and obligations: 1 In case of land lease with one-off payment of land rental for the entire lease period, they hac) Transfer of land use rights as prescribed by law; d) Renting land use rights to
other organizations, households, individuals and overseas Vietnamese investing in Vietnam;
obligations as economic organizations specified in Clauses 1, 2 and 4, Article 174 of this Law;
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 101
to continue to lease land from the State according to the defined purposes;
year has the following rights and obligations:
In case the heir is an overseas Vietnamese who falls into the categories specified in Clause
1, Article 186 of this Law, he/she may receive the inheritance.
land use rights; if not falling into the subjects specified in Clause 1, Article 186 of
a) General rights and obligations prescribed in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Sell
properties under their ownership attached to the leased land; property buyer
on land or lease land use rights to project investors, contribute capital with land use rights
use the land of that member for inheritance according to the will or by law.
3. Households and individuals subleasing land in industrial parks, industrial clusters or export
processing zones have the following rights and obligations:
use land with the project investor to implement the project in accordance with the Government's regulations.
2. Households and individuals that are leased land by the State with the collection of land rent
Vietnam, at other economic organizations or individuals as prescribed by law;
dd) Individuals using land have the right to inherit their land use rights according to the law
d) Leasing assets under their ownership attached to the leased land according to the
provisions of civil law; dd)
Mortgage with their own property attached to the leased land at the
credit institutions licensed to operate in Vietnam, other economic organizations or individuals as
prescribed by law; e) Contribute capital
with assets under their ownership attached to the leased land during the lease term with
organizations, households, individuals, overseas Vietnamese for production and business
cooperation; the recipient of capital contribution with the property shall continue to lease the land
from the State according to the defined purpose.
h) Contributing capital with land use rights with organizations, households, individuals and
overseas Vietnamese to cooperate in production and business; i) In case
land is recovered for project implementation, they have the right to self-invest
will or by law.
Households are allocated land by the State. If a member of the household dies, the right to
This Law shall enjoy the value of such inheritance;
c) To inherit or donate property under their ownership attached to the leased land; the heir,
the person who is given the property to continue to lease the land to the State for the defined
purpose;
e) Donating land use rights as prescribed at Point c, Clause 2, Article 174 of this Law; donate
land use rights to households, individuals or overseas Vietnamese who fall into the subjects
specified in Clause 1, Article 186 of this Law; g) Mortgage of land use rights at credit institutions
licensed to operate in
Machine Translated by Google
102 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
HAS FOREIGN, ENTERPRISE FUNCTIONS
according to the provisions of the civil law.
Article 180. Rights and obligations of households and individuals changing use purposes
HAS FOREIGN INVESTMENT TO USE LAND
2. Religious establishments and residential communities using land may not convert, transfer, lease
or donate land use rights; may not mortgage or contribute capital with land use rights.
4. Households and individuals that are allocated or leased land by the State and are exempt or
reduced from land use levy or rent have the same rights and obligations as those who are not exempted
or reduced from land use levy. , land rent.
Section 4
5. Households and individuals using land leased from organizations, households or individuals that
do not fall into the cases specified in Clause 3 of this Article have rights and obligations.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF FOREIGN VIETNAM, FOREIGN
ORGANIZATION
2. Rights and obligations of households and individuals using land permitted by a competent state
agency to change the land use purpose from land without land use levy to land with land use levy or
lease a) In case the State allocates land with collection of land use levy or leases land with one-off
rental payment for the entire lease term, has the rights and obligations specified in Clause 1, Article
179 of this Law. This Law;
b) If land is leased by the State with annual rental payment, they have the rights and obligations
specified in Clause 2, Article 179 of this Law. Article 181. Rights and
obligations of religious establishments and land-using residential communities 1. Religious
establishments and land-using residential communities have the general rights and obligations
specified in Articles 166 and 170 of the Law This.
a) In case of land lease or sublease with one-off payment of land rental for the entire lease period,
they have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 1 of this Article; b) In
case of land lease or sublease with annual land rental payment, they have the right and
obligations specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
land use from land without land use levy to land with levy collection
Article 182. Rights and obligations of foreign organizations with diplomatic functions
land use or land lease 1.
Households and individuals that change the land use purpose from the type of land without collection
of land use levy to the type of land with the collection of land use levy or lease have the general rights
and obligations specified in Article 1 of this Law. 166 and Article 170 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 103
c) Sell properties under their ownership attached to the leased land when fully meeting the conditions
prescribed in Article 189 of this Law;
2. Overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises that are leased land by the Vietnamese
State with annual rental payment have the following rights and obligations:
3. Overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises leased land by the Vietnamese State with
one-off rental payment for the entire lease period; Foreign-invested enterprises that are allocated land by
the Vietnamese State with the collection of land use levies for project implementation have the following
rights and obligations:
d) Renting out houses in case investment and business construction is permitted
a) General rights and obligations prescribed in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Transfer of land
use rights and assets under their ownership attached to land within the land use term; c) Leasing or
subleasing land use rights and assets under
their ownership attached to
a) General rights and obligations prescribed in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Mortgage with
their own property attached to the leased land at organizations
attached to the land during the land use term;
House.
credit institutions licensed to operate in Vietnam; contribute capital with assets under their ownership
attached to the leased land, the recipients contribute capital with assets leased by the State for the right
purposes as determined for the remaining term;
1. Foreign organizations with diplomatic functions to use land in Vietnam have the following rights
and obligations: a) General rights and
obligations specified in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Construction of works on land under
permits of competent Vietnamese state agencies; c) Own the works they build on the leased land
during the lease term.
2. If an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory contains different
provisions, the foreign organization with diplomatic functions has the rights and obligations under that
treaty. Article 183. Rights and obligations of overseas
Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises using land to implement investment projects in
Vietnam 1. Overseas Vietnamese return to invest Investors in Vietnam that are allocated land by the
Vietnamese State
with the collection of land use levy have the following rights and obligations: a) General rights and
obligations specified in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Rights and obligations specified in Clause 2,
Article 174 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
104 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
a) Land of economic organizations contributing capital is allocated by the State with
collection of land use levy or leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period
but the paid land use levy or land rent has no source; original from the
state budget; b) The land of economic organizations contributed as capital by receiving
the transfer of land use rights is not leased land from the State with annual land rental payment
but the money paid for the transfer does not originate from the state budget. .
1. A joint venture enterprise between a foreign organization, a foreign individual, an
overseas Vietnamese and an economic organization to which the economic organization
contributes capital with land use rights, the joint venture enterprise has the right to and
obligations specified in Article 174 of this Law in the following cases:
4. Foreign-invested enterprises using land formed by the purchase of shares of Vietnamese
enterprises by foreign investors have the following rights and obligations: Foreign investment
formed by the receipt
of shares is an enterprise with 100% foreign owned capital or an enterprise with foreign
investment capital in which foreign investors hold a controlling percentage of shares in
accordance with the law on foreign investment. enterprises, foreign-invested enterprises have
the rights and obligations specified in Clauses 2 and 3 of this Article corresponding to the form
of payment of land use levy and land rent; b) In case a foreign-invested enterprise formed by
the transfer of shares is an enterprise in which the Vietnamese
party holds a controlling share in accordance with the law on enterprises, the enterprise
with investment capital shall be
2. State enterprises that were leased land by the State before July 1, 2004 but are entitled
to use the value of land use rights as allocated by the state budget
Foreigners have the same rights and obligations as economic organizations specified in
Articles 174 and 175 of this Law.
5. Overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises that use land to implement
investment projects in Vietnam are allocated or leased land by the State with one-off rental
payment for the whole land. During the lease period, but are entitled to exemption or reduction
of land use levy or land rent, they have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 4, Article
174 of this Law. Article
184. Rights and obligations of joint-venture enterprises using land by receiving
capital contribution with land use rights; 100% foreign-invested enterprises converted
from joint ventures
d) Mortgage with their land use rights and properties attached to the land at credit
institutions licensed to operate in Vietnam during the land use term; dd) Contributing capital
with land use
rights and assets under their ownership attached to them
with land to cooperate in production and business within the land use term.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 105
land use in industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones, and technology zones
1. Overseas Vietnamese are entitled to transfer the right to use
4. A joint-venture enterprise to which the Vietnamese party contributes capital with land
use rights and is converted into an enterprise with 100% foreign capital has the following rights
and obligations: a)
Rights and obligations specified in Clause 2 Article 183 of this Law, for cases where the
land use rights obtained from previous capital contributions are not used to implement
investment projects in houses for sale and enterprises with 100% foreign capital are permitted
by the State. lease land with annual rental payment as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 56 of this
Law;
a) In case of paying land rent or sublease once for the entire lease or sublease period,
they have the rights and obligations prescribed in Article 174 of this Law;
b) In case of paying land rent or sublease annually, they have rights and obligations
economic zones, and have the rights and obligations prescribed in Article 174 of this Law.
prescribed in Article 175 of this Law.
b) Rights and obligations prescribed in Clause 3, Article 183 of this Law, in case the land
use right received as capital contribution is not previously used for the implementation of
investment projects on housing for sale. and enterprises with 100% foreign capital that are
leased land by the State with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period as prescribed
in Clause 1, Article 56 of this Law; c) Rights and obligations
prescribed in Clause 3, Article 183 of this Law, in case the land use rights obtained as
capital contributions are used to implement investment projects on houses for sale and
enterprises. % of foreign capital allocated by the State according to the provisions of Clause 3,
Article 55 of this Law.
2. Overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested enterprises leasing or subleasing land in
industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones, hi-tech parks and economic zones
have the following rights and obligations. the following obligations:
Article 185. Rights and obligations of overseas Vietnamese and foreign-invested
enterprises using land in industrial parks, industrial clusters, export processing zones,
hi-tech parks and economic zones
to the enterprise, without having to record debts and not have to pay land rent as prescribed by
the land law in order to contribute capital to a joint venture with a foreign organization or foreign
individual, the joint venture enterprise has the right, services specified in Article 174 of this Law.
The value of land use rights is the capital contributed by the State to the joint venture enterprise.
3. Overseas Vietnamese who are allocated land by the State with the collection of land
use levy or leased land with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period and contribute
capital with land use rights as an organization If a domestic economy enters into a joint venture
with a foreign organization or individual, a joint venture enterprise has the rights and obligations
specified in Article 174 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
106 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
domestic organizations and individuals, overseas Vietnamese who are eligible to own houses in
Vietnam to live in; donate houses attached to residential land use rights
to the State, the population community, or donate houses of gratitude according to the provisions of
Point c, Clause 2, Article 174 of this Law. In case of gifting or inheriting to subjects who are not eligible
to own houses in Vietnam, such subjects shall only be entitled to the value of houses associated with
residential land use rights; c) Mortgage of houses attached to
residential land use rights at credit institutions
2. Overseas Vietnamese are entitled to own houses attached to
using residential land in Vietnam specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the recipient shall inherit the land
license to operate in Vietnam; d)
Lease, authorize the management of the house during the time it is not in use.
are not granted certificates of land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets,
but are transferred or donated to inherited land use rights according to the following provisions: land
use right, the recipient inherits
The right to use residential land in Vietnam has the following rights and obligations:
be named as the assignor in the contract of transfer of the right to use
3. In case all recipients of land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached
assets are foreigners or overseas Vietnamese who are not eligible to buy houses. associated with the
right to use
land use;
b) In the case of donation of land use rights, the recipient must be the subject specified at Point
e, Clause 1, Article 179 of this Law and in accordance with the housing law, in which the recipient
must comply with the provisions of law on housing. the heir is named as the donor in the contract or
written commitment to donate; c) In case the right to use
In case of land use, the inheritor or his/her representative who has a written authorization in
accordance with regulations shall submit a dossier of inheritance at the land registration agency for
updating in the cadastral book.
a) General rights and obligations prescribed in Articles 166 and 170 of this Law; b) Transfer
of residential land use right upon sale, donation, inheritance or exchange of houses for organizations
Article 186. Rights and obligations regarding residential land use of overseas Vietnamese
who are entitled to own houses in Vietnam; Foreigners or Vietnamese residing abroad are not
eligible to buy houses
associated with the right to use residential land in
Vietnam 1. Overseas Vietnamese who belong to the subjects having the right to own houses
according to the provisions of the law on housing, have the right to own houses attached to housing.
residential land use rights in Vietnam.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 107
5. An inheritor in the cases specified at Point c, Clause 3 and Clause 4 of this Article may
authorize in writing the person to look after or temporarily use the property.
use land and perform obligations in accordance with the law on land and other relevant laws. Article
187. Rights and obligations of
overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises leasing land for construction of
underground works Overseas Vietnamese, foreign-invested enterprises Investment in construction
of underground works with land leased by the State shall have the following rights and obligations:
1. In case of land lease with one-off rental payment for the entire lease period,
If the land use right is used in accordance with the land law, but the inheritance of land use rights has
not been distributed to each heir, the heirs or the representative who has a written authorization in
accordance with regulations shall submit a dossier on the land use right. receive inheritance at the office
prescribed in Clauses 2 and 5, Article 183 of this Law.
the rights and obligations specified in Clauses 3 and 5, Article 183 of this Law;
Section
5 CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF RIGHTS OF LAND USERS
land registration authority to update in the Cadastral Book.
Article 188. Conditions for exercising the rights to exchange, transfer, lease, sublease,
inherit, donate or mortgage land use rights; capital contribution with land use rights 1. Land
users may exercise the rights
to exchange, transfer, lease, sublease, inherit, donate or mortgage land use rights; contribute
capital with land use rights when the following conditions are met:
2. In case of land lease with annual rental payment, they have rights and obligations
a) Having a Certificate, except for the case specified in Clause 3, Article 186 and
case of inheritance specified in Clause 1, Article 168 of this Law; b) Undisputed land;
After the inheritance division is completed, the certificate of land use rights and ownership of
houses and other land-attached assets shall be granted to the persons who are granted the Certificate
of land use rights and ownership rights. own houses and other properties attached to land; for
overseas Vietnamese who are not eligible to buy houses associated with residential land use rights
in Vietnam, the inheritance shall be settled according to the provisions of Clause 3 of this Article.
4. The case that among the heirs there are Vietnamese settlers
Overseas people are not eligible to buy houses associated with residential land use rights in Vietnam,
while others are eligible to inherit land use rights.
Machine Translated by Google
108 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
approved investment project.
2. Buyers of assets attached to leased land must ensure the following conditions: a) Having
financial capacity to execute investment projects; b) Having a
business line suitable to the investment project; c) Not violating the
provisions of the law on land for cases where the
3. The conversion, transfer, lease, sublease, inheritance, donation, replacement
Article 190. Conditions for conversion of agricultural land use rights Households
and individuals use agricultural land due to land allocation by the State, conversion, transfer,
inheritance or donation of land use rights. Legally from another person, only the right to use agricultural
land in the same commune, ward or township may be transferred to other households or individuals to
facilitate agricultural production and shall not have to pay income tax from the transfer. change the right
to use
land allocated or leased by the State for the implementation of the previous project.
land use and registration fees.
The mortgage of land use rights or capital contribution with land use rights must be registered at the land
registration agency and take effect from the time of registration in the cadastral book.
Article 191. Cases in which land use rights are not transferred or donated 1. Organizations,
households, individuals,
residential communities, religious establishments, overseas Vietnamese, enterprises Foreigninvested enterprises cannot
3. Property buyers may continue to lease land from the State for the remaining land use term at
specific land prices, and use land for the right purposes determined in the project. 4. In case of leasing
land for implementation
of infrastructure construction and business projects, the provisions of Article 194 of this Law shall
apply.
Article 189. Conditions for sale and purchase of properties on land leased by the State with
annual rental collection 1. Economic
organizations, households, individuals, overseas Vietnamese, enterprises Foreign-invested
capitalists may sell assets attached to leased land from the State when fully meeting the following
conditions: a) Assets attached to leased land are lawfully created
in accordance with law; b) The construction has been completed in accordance with the detailed
construction planning and
c) The land use right is not distrained to secure judgment enforcement; d)
During the land use term.
2. In addition to the conditions specified in Clause 1 of this Article, when exercising the rights to
exchange, transfer, lease, sublease, inherit or donate land use rights; the right to mortgage land use
rights or contribute capital with land use rights must also satisfy the conditions prescribed in Articles 189,
190, 191, 192, 193 and 194 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 109
2. Households and individuals that are allocated residential land or agricultural production
land by the State in the protected forest area may only transfer or donate the right to use
residential land or agricultural production land to households. individuals living in that protection
forest area.
3. Ethnic minority households and individuals using land allocated by the State under the
State's support policies may transfer or donate land use rights after 10 years from the date of
issuance of the decision. allotment of land according to regulations of the Government. Article
193.
Conditions for receipt of assignment, capital contribution or lease of agricultural land
use rights for implementation of non-agricultural business and production investment
projects Economic organizations, households and individuals may receive the assignment ,
receive capital contribution or lease agricultural land use rights to implement non-agricultural
production and business investment projects when fully meeting the following conditions:
3. Households and individuals that are not directly engaged in agricultural production may
not receive the transfer or donation of land use rights for rice cultivation.
1. Having written approval from a competent state agency for economic organizations that
receive transfer, capital contribution or lease of agricultural land use rights for project
implementation; 2.
The purpose of use for the land area receiving transfer, capital contribution or lease of land
use rights must be consistent with the master plan and plan on land use already approved by a
competent state agency;
4. Households and individuals are not allowed to transfer or donate the right to use residential
land or agricultural land in protection forest areas, in strictly protected sub-zones and ecological
restoration sub-zones in special forests. if you do not live in that area of protection forest or
special-use forest.
Article 192. Cases where households and individuals transfer or donate land use
rights with conditions 1.
Households and individuals are living alternately in strictly protected sub-zones and
ecological restoration sub-zones. belonging to special-use forests but have not had the conditions
to move out of that sub-zone, they may only transfer or donate the right to use residential land or
forest land in combination with agricultural, forestry and aquaculture production to households.
individuals living in that subdivision.
receive transfer or donation of land use rights in cases where the transfer or donation of land use
rights is not permitted by law.
2. Economic organizations may not receive the transfer of the right to use land for rice
cultivation, protection forest land, and special-use forest land of households and individuals,
except for cases where the land use purpose is changed according to master plans or plans. land
use plan approved by a competent state agency.
Machine Translated by Google
110 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
1. The transfer of land use rights in investment projects, construction and business of housing
shall comply with the following provisions: a) Provincial-level
People's Committees shall base themselves on the Government's regulations on conditions and
types. urban areas to allow investors of housing construction and business investment projects to
transfer land use rights in the form of subdivisions after completing investment in infrastructure
construction and financial obligations on land. band; b) With regard to
investment projects on construction and business of housing, the transfer of land use rights shall
be associated with the transfer of all or part of the project.
Article 195. Administrative procedures for land 1.
Administrative procedures for land include: a)
Procedures for land recovery, land allocation, land lease, and land use purpose change;
b) Procedures for registration of land and land-attached assets, and issuance of certificates
3. For land specialized in wet rice cultivation, the provisions of Clause 3, Article 134 of this Law
must be complied with.
Article 194. Conditions for transfer of land use rights in project implementation
housing construction and business investment projects; infrastructure construction
investment projects for transfer or lease
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES ON LAND
Chapter XII
3. The Government shall detail this Article.
2. The Government shall detail this Article.
an investment project on construction of infrastructure for transfer or lease must satisfy the following
conditions: a/ Having fully
met the conditions specified in Clause 1, Article 188 of this Law; b) The project
must complete the construction of corresponding technical infrastructure works according to the
schedule stated in the approved project.
e) Procedures for conciliation of land disputes, procedures for settlement of land disputes at
administrative agencies;
g) Procedures for sanctioning administrative violations in the field of land.
2. The transfer of land use rights is associated with the transfer of the entire project
execute the decision on land recovery;
c) Procedures for renewal, re-issuance, correction and revocation of Certificates and Certificates
after obtaining the Certificate. The transferee of the land use right must implement the investment
project according to the approved schedule.
land use rights, ownership of houses and other land-attached assets;
receive house ownership, construction work ownership certificates; d) Procedures for
exercising the rights of land users; d) Procedures for enforcement
of decisions on compulsory inventory and enforcement
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 111
result; posted on the website of the national database on administrative procedures, the website of
the People's Committee of the province and the People's Committee of the district. Article 197.
Implementation of administrative procedures for land 1. Ministries
and branches shall, according to their functions, tasks and powers, coordinate in directing,
guiding and inspecting the implementation of administrative procedures on land.
SUPERVISION, INSPECTION, DISPUTE SETTLEMENT, COMPLAINTS,
Article 196. Publication of administrative procedures for
land 1. Contents of publicizing administrative procedures for land include:
a) Agencies competent to receive dossiers and return results; b)
Processing time for each administrative procedure; c) Components
of the dossier for each administrative procedure; d) Process and
responsibility for handling each type of administrative procedure; dd) Financial
obligations, fees and charges payable for each administrative procedure.
2. The publicity of the contents specified in Clause 1 of this Article shall be made in the form of
regular posting at the head office of the agency receiving the dossier and paying
Chapter XIII
4. Land users and other relevant people are responsible for fully implementing the order and
procedures for land administration and financial obligations as prescribed by law.
comply with the prescribed order and procedures.
Vietnam, member organizations of the Front on land use and management
3. Agencies competent to settle administrative procedures for land must carry out
Article 198. Supervision of the National Assembly, the People's Councils at all levels, the Front
implementing administrative procedures in the locality; stipulates the coordination between relevant
local agencies to settle administrative procedures on land and other related administrative procedures.
LAND MANAGEMENT AND USE
Section 1
land, ensuring consistency between administrative procedures on land and other relevant
administrative procedures.
2. People's Committees at all levels are responsible for directing, guiding, inspecting and organizing
DECLARATION AND HANDLING OF VIOLATIONS OF LAND LAW
MONITORING, TRACKING AND EVALUATION
Machine Translated by Google
112 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
3. Contents of citizen's supervision in land management and use: a) The formulation,
adjustment, announcement and implementation of master plans and plans on land use; b)
Land allocation, land lease, permission to change land use purpose; c) Land acquisition,
compensation, support and resettlement; d) The registration of land
and land-attached assets, issuance of certificates of land use rights and ownership of houses and
other land-attached assets; dd) The collection, exemption or reduction of land use
levy, land rent, and land-related taxes; land valuation; e) The implementation of administrative
procedures related
to the rights and obligations of land users.
4. Forms of supervision by citizens in land management and use: a) Directly exercising
the right of supervision through reporting and submitting petitions
Article 199. Citizens' supervision over the management and use of land 1. Citizens have
the right to perform it themselves or through representative organizations.
This organization does the monitoring.
recommendations to competent agencies and persons for settlement;
5. Responsibilities of competent state agencies when receiving opinions from citizens and people's
representative organizations: a) Examine, handle and
reply in writing according to their competence; b) Transfer the application
to a competent state agency for settlement in the
the right to monitor and report violations in land management and use.
the case is not under the jurisdiction; c) Notify
the results to the organizations and individuals that have reported.
Article 200. Monitoring and evaluation system for land management and use 1. Monitoring
and evaluation system for land management and use is used
b) Send petitions to representative organizations recognized by law for
used to assess land law enforcement, management efficiency, and use
2. The supervision and reflection must ensure objectivity, honesty and lawfulness; not to take
advantage of the supervision right to make complaints or denunciations in contravention of the law, causing
social disorder; take responsibility before law for the accuracy of the information they report.
1. The National Assembly and People's Councils at all levels exercise the right to supervise the
management and use of land in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on supervision of the
National Assembly, the Law on organization of the People's Councils and Committees. people.
2. The Vietnam Fatherland Front and its member organizations exercise the right to supervise the
management and use of land in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the Vietnam Fatherland Front
and other provisions of law. relevant law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 113
d) Necessary information to be obtained by technological solutions, including taking pictures of
the ground from satellites, aircraft and other flying vehicles; field investigation and other technical
means;
disclosed for organizations and individuals to find out information according to the provisions of law.
land, the impact of policies and laws on land on the economy, society and environment on a national
and local scale.
2. The monitoring and evaluation system for land management and use is built on the basis of
the land information system and the collection of other information from the land law enforcement
process in the area. The whole country includes: a) Information on master
plans and plans on land use; land statistics and inventory; land prices and land taxes; land
allocation, land lease, land recovery, permission to change land use purpose, grant of certificates of
land use rights and ownership of houses and other land-attached assets; the implementation of
investment projects using land; the observance of the law on land; examine, inspect and handle landrelated violations by administrative agencies; b) Information on settlement of disputes and complaints
about land; c) Information
from the process of monitoring the implementation of the law on land by
the National Assembly and People's Councils at all levels; Vietnam Fatherland Front and its
member organizations; other relevant organizations and people;
5. The monitoring and evaluation system for land use and management is public
monitoring and evaluation system. The natural resources and environment agency is responsible for
updating the information in the monitoring and evaluation system into the land information system.
4. The information-retaining state agency specified in Clause 2 of this Article is responsible for
providing adequate, accurate and timely information to the system managing agency.
3. The natural resources and environment agency is responsible for managing the monitoring
and evaluation system; organize the assessment of law enforcement, the effectiveness of land
management and use, the impact of land policies and laws on the economy, society and the
environment on a national and local scale. direction; Evaluation results are sent periodically to the
Government and the National Assembly.
Article 201. Specialized land inspection
Land use is carried out from various research, survey and survey activities and conducts additional
sociological investigations as needed.
DECLARATION AND HANDLING OF VIOLATIONS OF LAND LAW
Section 2
d) Necessary information from sociological survey data on management and use of
6. The Government shall detail the construction and operation of the monitoring and evaluation
system for land management and use.
INSPECTION, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES, COMPLAINTS,
Machine Translated by Google
114 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
other relevant organizations and individuals;
c) Inspect the observance of regulations on expertise and profession in the field of land.
The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for directing and organizing the
implementation of specialized land inspection throughout the country.
b) Detect, prevent and handle according to their competence or propose competent state agencies
to handle violations of the land law.
3. Specialized land inspectors have the following tasks: a) Inspect the
observance of law by state agencies and users
4. Rights and obligations of inspection team heads, inspectors and civil servants performing
specialized land inspection, the process of conducting specialized land inspection shall comply with
regulations of law on inspection. Article 202. Conciliation of land disputes 1.
The State encourages the parties to land disputes
to self-mediate or settle land disputes through grassroots conciliation.
The local land management agency is responsible for organizing the specialized land inspection in
the locality.
2. For land disputes that the disputing parties cannot conciliate, they shall send an application to the communelevel People's Committee of the locality where the disputed land is located for conciliation.
land in the management and use of land;
3. Commune-level People's Committee presidents shall have to organize the conciliation of land
disputes in their respective localities; in the course of implementation, must coordinate with the communelevel Vietnam Fatherland Front Committees, member organizations of the Front and other social
organizations. Procedures for conciliation of land disputes at commune-level People's Committees shall
be carried out within 45 days from the date of receipt of a written request for settlement of land disputes.
4. The conciliation must be recorded in writing, signed by the parties and certified by the People's
Committee of the commune of the commune. The minutes of conciliation shall be sent to the disputing
parties and kept at the commune-level People's Committee of the locality where the disputed land is
located. 5. In the case
of successful conciliation with changes in the status quo of boundaries and land users, the
commune-level People's Committees shall send the minutes of conciliation to the Finance Department.
2. Contents of specialized land inspection include: a) Inspection of
the observance of the law on land by People's Committees at all levels; b) Inspect the
observance of the law on land by land users and property owners
1. Specialized land inspection means an inspection by a competent state agency over agencies,
organizations and individuals in the observance of the law on land.
land, regulations on expertise, techniques and management in the field of land.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 115
The Division of Natural Resources and Environment, the Department of Natural Resources
and Environment, shall submit to the People's Committee of the same level a decision on
recognition of the change of land plot boundaries and granting a new certificate of land use
rights and ownership of
houses and properties. other attached to the land. Article 203.
Competence to settle land disputes Land disputes that have been unsuccessfully
conciliated at the commune-level
People's Committees shall be settled as follows: 1. Land disputes in which the involved
parties have certificates or have one of the papers specified in Article 100 of this Law and the
dispute over property on land shall be settled by the People's Court.
may choose only one of two forms of land dispute settlement according to the following
provisions: a)
File a request for dispute settlement at the competent People's Committee as prescribed
in Clause 3 of this Article; b) File a lawsuit at a
competent People's Court in accordance with the law on civil procedures; 3. In case the
involved parties
choose to settle their disputes at the People's Committees of
competent authority, the settlement of land disputes shall be carried out as follows:
2. In a land dispute where the involved parties do not have a Certificate or one of the
papers specified in Article 100 of this Law, the involved parties
and Environment for land disputes between households, individuals and communities; sent to
the Department of Natural Resources and Environment for other cases.
administrative
proceedings; 4. The person competent to settle land disputes specified in Clause 3 of this
Article must issue a dispute settlement decision. An enforceable dispute settlement decision
must be strictly observed by the disputing parties. In case the parties fail to comply, the
enforcement will be enforced.
a) In case of a dispute between households, individuals and communities, the chairperson
of the district-level People's Committee shall settle it; if they disagree with the settlement
decision, they have the right to complain to the President of the provincial People's Committee
or initiate a lawsuit at the People's Court in accordance with the law on administrative
procedures;
b) In case of a dispute in which one of the disputing parties is an organization, religious
establishment, overseas Vietnamese or foreign-invested enterprise, the President of the
provincial People's Committee shall settle it; If they disagree with the settlement decision, they
have the right to complain to the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment or initiate a
lawsuit at the People's Court in accordance with the law on prosecution.
Machine Translated by Google
116 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
Article 207. Handling of persons who commit acts of violating the law on land while on official duty
in the land domain 1. Persons who commit acts of
violating the law on land while on duty shall depend on the nature of their official duties. The nature and
seriousness of the violation shall be disciplined or examined for penal liability in accordance with law for the
following violations:
2. Persons who commit acts of violating the land law and cause damage to the State or other people, apart
from being handled according to law provisions, must also pay compensation according to the actual damage to
the State or to the affected person.
Procedures for settlement of complaints about administrative decisions and administrative acts on land shall
comply with the law on administrative procedures. Article 205. Settlement
of denunciations about land 1. Individuals have the
right to denounce violations of the law on land management and use.
land use; c)
Violations against regulations on collecting opinions, disclosing and disclosing information; violate the rules
a) Abusing positions and powers to contravene law in land allocation, land lease, change of land use
purpose, land recovery, compensation, support, resettlement, transfer of land use rights; land, implementing
master plans and plans on land use, determining financial obligations on land, managing cadastral records,
making administrative decisions in land management;
determining the administrative order and procedures; violation of regulations on reporting in land management.
2. The settlement of denunciations of violations of the law on land management and use shall comply with
the law on denunciations. Article 206. Handling of
persons who commit acts of violating the land law 1. Persons who commit acts of violating the
land law shall depend on the nature and seriousness of their violations.
2. The Government shall detail this Article. Article
208. Responsibilities of Presidents of People's Committees at all levels in detecting, preventing and
handling violations of the law on land management and use 1. Presidents of People's Committees at all
levels are responsible for developing detect, prevent and deal with
b) Lack of responsibility in management so that a violation of the law on land occurs or other acts cause
damage to land resources, rights and obligations of land users.
promptly handle violations of the law on land management and use in the locality.
violations that are administratively handled or examined for penal liability in accordance with law.
Article 204. Settlement of complaints and lawsuits about land 1. Land
users and people with rights and obligations related to land use have the right to complain or initiate lawsuits
against administrative decisions or administrative acts about land use rights and obligations. Land Management.
2. The order and procedures for settlement of complaints about administrative decisions and administrative
acts on land shall comply with the provisions of the law on complaints. Sequence, manual
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 117
c) For violations committed by the head of the land management agency, send a petition
to the President of the People's Committee of the same level.
Article 209. Receipt and handling of responsibilities of heads, civil servants and public
employees of land management agencies at all levels and commune-level cadastral officials in
violation of the order of administrative procedures 1 . Organizations and
individuals, when detecting that civil servants and public employees of land management agencies
at all levels, cadastral officials of communes, wards and townships have violated regulations on land management,
Article 210. Transitional provisions 1. The
person who was leased land by the State before July 1, 2004 has paid
2. Within 30 days from the date of receipt of the petition, the President of the People's Committee or
the head of the land management agency specified in Clause 1 of this Article shall consider, settle and
notify the petitioner.
If the paid land rental period is for the entire lease period or prepayment of land rent for many years
remains at least 5 years, economic organizations shall have the rights and obligations specified in Article
174 of this Law. ; households and individuals have the rights and obligations specified in Clause 1, Article
179 of this Law.
the order, procedures and time limit for land allocation, land lease, permission for land use purpose
change, land recovery, carrying out procedures for exercising the rights of land users, granting certificates,
have the right to: send petitions to competent persons according to the following provisions: a) For
violations committed by
cadastral officers of communes, wards or townships, the petitions shall be sent to the chairpersons of
the commune-level People's Committees; b) For
violations committed by civil servants and public employees of land management agencies
2. In case the investor is leased land by the State with annual rental payment to invest in the
construction and business of infrastructure of industrial parks, industrial clusters or export processing
zones, the land has been sub-leased with good results. infrastructure in the form of payment
Chapter XIV
IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS
one-time land rental for the entire lease period before the effective date of this Law
At any level, the petition shall be sent to the head of the land management agency at that level;
2. Commune-level People's Committee presidents are responsible for detecting, preventing and
promptly handling the illegal transfer of land use rights or change of use purposes.
illegal land use; detect and apply measures to prevent and promptly handle the construction of works on
encroached, occupied or improperly used land in the locality and force violators to restore their status. land
before the violation.
Machine Translated by Google
118 NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013
5. For land allocated by the State to an economic organization to create capital for
infrastructure construction under a project, the land is originally from winning auctions of land
use rights before July 1, 2004 by business organizations. If the land use term is not determined,
the land use term shall comply with the Government's regulations. 6. For projects and items
that have paid
compensation, support and resettlement before the effective date of this Law, the
provisions of this Law shall not apply. In case the projects and items have approved
compensation, support and resettlement plans or are paying compensation and support
For assistance and resettlement according to the plan approved before the effective date of
this Law, the approved plan shall apply, not the provisions of this Law. 7. In case of land
allocation, land lease,
change of land use purpose or recognition of land use rights before the effective date of
this Law, but the land user has not fulfilled its financial obligations, the time shall be calculate
and collect land use levy and land rent according to the Government's regulations.
The land use term is calculated from October 15, 2013 in case it expires on October 15, 2013
according to the provisions of the 2003 Land Law; from the date of expiration of the land
allocation period in case it expires after October 15
using land in violation of the law on land and in cases where land use rights have been
guaranteed before the effective date of this Law. Article
211. Implementation effect 1.
This Law takes effect from July 1, 2014.
8. Households and individuals that are using the allocated agricultural land area in excess
of the quota before the effective date of this Law must change to lease land according to the
provisions of this Law.
2013.
9. The Government prescribes the handling of a number of specific cases in use
4. In case a household or individual uses agricultural land before the effective date of this
Law but has not yet been granted a Certificate, the land use term upon issuance of the
Certificate shall be counted from the effective date of this Law. enforce.
must pay money to the State according to the Government's regulations; The sub-lessee has
the same rights and obligations as the one-time payment from the State leasing the land for
the entire lease period after the investor has fully paid the land rent into the state budget.
3. Households and individuals directly engaged in agricultural production have been
allocated land, recognized land use rights or transferred agricultural land use rights before the
effective date of this Law, upon the expiration of the use term. If there is a need, they may
continue to use the land according to the time limit specified in Clause 1, Article 126 of this Law.
Machine Translated by Google
NOTICE/No. 1011 + 1012/December 31, 2013 119
PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS
Nguyen Sinh Hung
2. To annul Article 57 of Vietnam's Civil Aviation Law No. 66/2006/QH11; Article 2 of Law
No. 34/2009/QH12 amending and supplementing Article 126 of the Housing Law and Article 121
of the Land Law; Article 4 of Law No. 38/2009/QH12 amending and supplementing a number of
articles of the law related to capital construction investment; Article 264 of the Law on Prosecution
Land Law No. 13/2003/QH11 and Resolution No. 49/2013/QH13 dated June 21, 2013 of
the National Assembly on extending the use term of land for annual crops, aquaculture and salt
production of households and individuals shall cease to be effective from the effective date of
this Law.
This Law was passed by the 13th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at
its 6th session on November 29, 2013.
administrative litigation No. 64/2010/QH12; regulations on land requisition in the Law on
expropriation and requisition of properties No. 15/2008/
QH12. Article 212. Detailed
regulations The Government shall detail the articles and clauses assigned in the Law.
Machine Translated by Google
GOVERNMENT OFFICE PUBLICATION
Address: Phone: 080.44946 
080.44417 Fax: 080.44517
Email: congbao@chinhphu.vn
Website: http://congbao.chinhphu.vn
Printed at: Map Enterprise 1 - Ministry of Defense
Price: 10,000 VND
No. 1, Hoang Hoa Tham, Ba Dinh, Hanoi
Machine Translated by Google
