


CIVIL CODE 2015

Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam ;
The National Assembly promulgates the Civil Code.

Part One
GENERAL RULES

Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1. Scope
This Code stipulates the legal status and legal standards of conduct of individuals and legal entities; personal rights and obligations and property rights of individuals and legal entities in relationships formed on the basis of equality, freedom of will, property independence and self-responsibility (hereinafter collectively referred to as: civil relations).

Article 2. Recognition, respect, protection and assurance of civil rights
1. In the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, civil rights are recognized, respected, protected and guaranteed according to the Constitution and laws.
2. Civil rights may be restricted only in accordance with law in necessary cases for reasons of national defense and security, social order and safety, social ethics, or community health. .

Article 3. Basic principles of civil law
1. All individuals and legal entities are equal and must not use any reason to discriminate; are equally protected by law in terms of personal and property rights.
2. Individuals and juridical persons shall establish, perform and terminate their civil rights and obligations on the basis of freely and voluntarily committing and agreeing. All commitments and agreements that do not violate the prohibition of the law, are not contrary to social ethics are effective for the parties and must be respected by other subjects.
3. Individuals and legal entities must establish, perform and terminate their civil rights and obligations in good faith and honestly.
4. The establishment, exercise, and termination of civil rights and obligations must not infringe upon the national interests, ethnic groups, public interests, and lawful rights and interests of others.
5. Individuals and legal entities must be solely responsible for their failure to perform or improper performance of their civil obligations.

Article 4. Application of the Civil Code
1. This Code is the general law governing civil relations.
2. Other relevant laws governing civil relations in specific fields must not contravene the basic principles of civil law specified in Article 3 of this Code.
3. Where other relevant laws do not or have provisions but violate Clause 2 of this Article, the provisions of this Code shall apply.
4. In case there are differences between the provisions of this Code and an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a contracting party on the same issue, the provisions of the international treaty shall prevail.

Article 5. Application of custom
1. Custom is a rule of conduct with clear content to determine the rights and obligations of an individual or a legal entity in a specific civil relationship, which is formed and repeated many times over a long period of time. , which is widely recognized and applied in a region, domain, ethnic group, population community or in a civil field.
2. If the parties do not reach an agreement and the law does not provide for it, a custom may be applied, but the applicable custom must not be contrary to the basic principles of civil law specified in Article 3 of the Code. This.

Article 6. Similar application of law
1. In case a relationship arises within the scope of the civil law, which the parties do not agree on, the law does not provide, and there is no applicable custom, the provisions of the governing law shall apply. similar civil relations.
2. Where it is not possible to apply the same law as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the basic principles of civil law prescribed in Article 3 of this Code, case law, and fairness shall apply.

Article 7. State policies on civil relations
1. The establishment, exercise and termination of civil rights and obligations must ensure the preservation of national identity, respect and promotion of fine customs, practices, traditions, solidarity, mutual friendship, mutual love, each person for the community, the community for each person and the noble moral values of the ethnic groups living in Vietnam.
2. In civil relations, conciliation between the parties in accordance with the provisions of law is encouraged.

chapter II
ESTABLISHMENT, IMPLEMENTATION AND PROTECTION OF CIVIL RIGHTS

Article 8. Grounds for establishing civil rights
Civil rights are established on the following grounds:
1. Contract.
2. Unilateral legal action.
3. Decisions of courts or other competent agencies as prescribed by law.
4. Results of labor, production and business; the result of creative activities that create the object of intellectual property rights.
5. Possession of property.
6. Using property, benefiting from property without a legal basis.
7. Damage caused by illegal acts.
8. Perform work without authorization.
9. Other grounds prescribed by law.

Article 9. Exercise of civil rights
1. Individuals and legal entities may exercise their civil rights according to their own will, which must not be contrary to the provisions of Articles 3 and 10 of this Code.
2. The failure of individuals or legal entities to exercise their civil rights is not a ground for termination of rights, unless otherwise provided for by law.

Article 10. Limitation on exercise of civil rights
1. Individuals and legal entities must not abuse their civil rights to cause damage to others, to violate their obligations or to perform other illegal purposes.
2. In case an individual or juridical person fails to comply with the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article, a court or other competent authority may, based on the nature and consequences of the violation, fail to protect part of it. or all their rights, compensating for damage, and possibly other remedies provided for by law.

Article 11. Methods of protecting civil rights
When the civil rights of an individual or a legal entity are infringed, that subject has the right to defend itself according to the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws or to request a competent agency or organization to:
1. To recognize, respect, protect and guarantee their civil rights.
2. Forcible termination of infringing acts.
3. Forced public apology and rectification.
4. Forced performance of obligations.
5. Forced compensation for damage.
6. Canceling a particular illegal decision of a competent agency, organization or person.
7. Other requirements as prescribed by law.

Article 12. Self-defense of civil rights
Self-defense of civil rights must be consistent with the nature and extent of infringing upon such civil rights and must not be contrary to the basic principles of civil law specified in Article 3 of this Code.

Article 13. Compensation for damage
Individuals and legal entities whose civil rights have been infringed shall be compensated for all damage, unless otherwise agreed by the parties or otherwise provided for by law.

Article 14. Protection of civil rights through competent authorities
1. Courts and other competent agencies have the responsibility to respect and protect the civil rights of individuals and legal entities.
Where civil rights are infringed or in dispute, the protection of rights shall comply with procedural law at court or arbitration.
The protection of civil rights according to administrative procedures shall be carried out in cases prescribed by law. The decision to settle the case according to administrative procedures may be reviewed at the Court.
2. The court may not refuse to settle a civil case or matter because there is no applicable law; in this case, the provisions of Articles 5 and 6 of this Code shall apply.

Article 15. Cancellation of a particular illegal decision of a competent agency, organization or person
When dealing with a request for protection of civil rights, a court or other competent agency has the right to annul an illegal individual decision of a competent agency, organization or person.
In case the individual decision is annulled, the infringed civil rights will be restored and can be protected by the methods specified in Article 11 of this Code.

Chapter III
INDIVIDUAL

Section 1. CIVIL LEGAL CAPACITY, CIVIL ACTION CAPACITY OF INDIVIDUAL
Article 16. Civil legal capacity of individuals
1. An individual's civil legal capacity is the ability of an individual to have civil rights and civil obligations.
2. All individuals have the same civil legal capacity.
3. An individual's civil legal capacity starts from the time he or she is born and ends when that person dies.
Article 17. Contents of civil legal capacity of individuals
1. Moral rights not attached to property and moral rights attached to property.
2. Ownership, inheritance and other rights to property.
3. The right to participate in a civil relationship and to have obligations arising from that relationship.

Article 18. No limitation on the civil legal capacity of individuals
The civil legal capacity of an individual is not restricted, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.

Article 19. Civil act capacity of individuals
An individual's civil act capacity is an individual's ability to establish and perform civil rights and obligations by his/her own actions.

Article 20. Adults
1. An adult means a person who is full eighteen years of age or older.
2. Adults have full civil act capacity, except for the cases specified in Articles 22, 23 and 24 of this Code.

Article 21. Minors
1. A minor is a person under the age of eighteen.
2. Civil transactions of persons under six years of age are established and performed by such person's legal representative.
3. Persons aged between full six and under fifteen years of age, when establishing and performing civil transactions, must obtain the consent of their legal representatives, except for civil transactions in service of daily living needs in accordance with regulations of law. ages.
4. Persons between full fifteen years of age and under eighteen years of age shall by themselves establish and perform civil transactions, except for civil transactions related to real estate, movables which must be registered and other civil transactions according to regulations. provisions of the law must be approved by the legal representative.

Article 22. Loss of civil act capacity
1. When a person is unable to perceive or control his/her behavior due to a mental illness or other disease, at the request of a person with related rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations, the Court or the Court issue a decision to declare this person as a person incapacitated for civil acts on the basis of the conclusion of a psychiatric forensic examination.
When there are no longer grounds to declare that a person has lost his/her civil act capacity, at the request of that person or persons with related rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations, the Court shall issue a decision to cancel the civil act. annul the decision declaring the loss of civil act capacity.
2. Civil transactions of persons who have lost their civil act capacity must be established and performed by their legal representatives.

Article 23. Persons with difficulties in perception and behavior control
1. An adult who, due to his or her physical or mental condition, is incapable of perceiving and controlling acts but not yet to the point of losing civil act capacity, shall, at the request of such person, have rights and interests. related agencies or organizations, on the basis of conclusions of forensic psychiatric examination, the Court shall issue a decision to declare this person to be a person with difficulties in cognition and behavior control and appoint a guardianship, determining the rights and obligations of the guardian.
2. When there are no longer grounds to declare that a person has difficulty in perception or behavior control, at the request of that person or of persons with related rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations, The court issued a decision to annul the decision declaring that the person has difficulty in cognition and behavior control.

Article 24. Limitation of civil act capacity
1. People addicted to drugs or other stimulants leading to the destruction of their family's property, at the request of persons with related rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations, the Court may issue decide to declare this person as a person with restricted civil act capacity.
The court shall decide on the legal representative of the person with limited civil act capacity and scope of representation.
2. The establishment and performance of civil transactions relating to the property of a person whose civil act capacity is restricted by a court must be approved by the legal representative, except for transactions intended to serve the purpose of service. services for daily living or other relevant laws.
3. When there are no longer grounds to declare that a person has restricted civil act capacity, at the request of that person or persons with related rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations, the Courts issue a decision to annul the decision declaring the limitation of civil act capacity.

Section 2. PERSONAL RIGHTS

Article 25. Moral rights
1. Moral rights specified in this Code are civil rights attached to each individual and cannot be transferred to another person, unless otherwise provided by other relevant laws.
2. The establishment and performance of civil relations related to the moral rights of minors, persons who have lost their civil act capacity, and people with difficulties in cognition and behavior control must be represented by a representative. in accordance with the law of this person as agreed in accordance with the provisions of this Code, other relevant laws or a decision of the Court.
The establishment and performance of civil relations related to the moral rights of the person who is declared missing or deceased must be agreed upon by his or her spouse or adult child; in the absence of such persons, the consent of the father or mother of the person declared missing or deceased, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.

Article 26. Right to have a full name
1. Individuals have the right to have a family name and first name (including middle letters, if any). A person's first and last name is determined by the person's last name and birth name.
2. The surname of an individual is determined to be the family name of the biological father or the family name of the biological mother according to the agreement of the parents; If there is no agreement, the child's surname is determined by custom. In case the biological father cannot be identified, the child's family name shall be determined according to the biological mother's surname.
Where a child is abandoned, his biological father or mother has not been identified and is adopted, the child's family name shall be determined according to the adoptive father's surname or the adoptive mother's surname according to the agreement of the adoptive parents. Where there is only adoptive father or adoptive mother, the child's family name shall be determined according to that person's surname.
In case a child is abandoned, his biological father or mother has not been identified and has not been adopted, the child's family name shall be determined at the request of the head of such child rearing establishment or at the request of the head of such child rearing establishment. of the person requesting the registration of the birth of a child, if the child is in the temporary custody of that person.
The biological father and mother specified in this Code are the father and mother determined based on the fact of giving birth; the person who asks for surrogacy with the person born from surrogacy according to the provisions of the Law on Marriage and Family.
3. Naming is restricted in cases where it infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of others or is contrary to the basic principles of civil law specified in Article 3 of this Code.
The name of a Vietnamese citizen must be in Vietnamese or another ethnic language of Vietnam; do not name with a number, with a character that is not a letter.
4. Individuals shall establish and perform civil rights and obligations according to their full names.
5. The use of aliases or pseudonyms must not cause damage to the lawful rights and interests of others.

Article 27. Right to change surname
1. Individuals have the right to request competent state agencies to recognize the change of surname in the following cases:
a) Changing the family name for a biological child from the surname of the biological father to the surname of the biological mother or vice versa;
b) Changing the family name of the adopted child from the family name of the biological father or natural mother to the surname of the adoptive father or the surname of the adoptive mother at the request of the adoptive father or mother;
c) When an adopted child ceases to be adopted and this person or his/her biological father or mother requests to have his/her family name restored to him/her according to the family name of his/her biological father or mother;
d) Changing the family name for the child at the request of the biological father or mother or of the child when determining the father or mother for the child;
dd) Change the family name of the lost person who has found his or her blood origin;
e) Changing the family name according to the wife's and husband's surname in the marriage and family relationship involving foreign elements in order to comply with the law of the country of which the foreign spouse is a citizen, or regain the surname before change;
g) Changing the child's last name when the father or mother changes the family name;
h) Other cases prescribed by the civil status law.
2. The change of last name for a person aged full nine years or older must be consented to by that person.
3. Changing an individual's surname does not change or terminate the civil rights and obligations established under the old family name.

Article 28. Right to change name
1. Individuals have the right to request competent state agencies to recognize the change of name in the following cases:
a) At the request of a named person whose use of that name causes confusion, affects family sentiments, honors, legitimate rights and interests of that person;
b) At the request of the adoptive father or adoptive mother to change the name of the adopted child or when the adopted child ceases to be adopted and this person or the biological father or mother requests to have the name given by the biological father or mother again. ;
c) At the request of the biological father, natural mother or child when determining the father or mother for the child;
d) Change the name of the lost person who has found his or her blood origin;
dd) Change the name of the spouse in a marriage and family relationship involving foreign elements to conform to the law of the country of which the foreign spouse is a citizen, or regain the name before the change;
e) Change the name of the person who has re-determined gender, the person who has changed gender;
g) Other cases prescribed by the civil status law.
2. The change of name for a person aged full nine years or older must have the consent of that person.
3. The change of an individual's name does not change or terminate the civil rights and obligations established under the old name.

Article 29. Right to identify and redefine ethnicity
1. Individuals have the right to identify and redefine their ethnicity.
2. An individual at birth shall have his/her ethnicity determined according to the ethnicity of his/her biological father or mother. In case the natural father and mother belong to two different ethnic groups, the ethnicity of the child shall be determined according to the ethnicity of the biological father or natural mother according to the agreement of the biological father or mother; in case there is no agreement, the ethnicity of the child shall be determined according to custom; In case of different customs, the ethnicity of the child is determined according to the custom of the ethnic minority.
Where a child is abandoned, has not yet identified his biological father or mother and is adopted, his/her ethnicity shall be determined according to the ethnicity of the adoptive father or adoptive mother according to the agreement of the adoptive parents. Where there is only adoptive father or adoptive mother, the ethnicity of the child shall be determined according to that person's ethnicity.
In case a child is abandoned, his biological father or mother has not been identified and has not yet been adopted, his/her ethnicity shall be determined at the request of the head of that child rearing establishment or at the request of the parent. is temporarily fostering a child at the time of registration of the child's birth.
3. Individuals have the right to request competent state agencies to redefine ethnicity in the following cases:
a) Redefining according to the ethnicity of the biological father or mother in case the biological father and mother belong to two different ethnic groups;
b) Re-determination by ethnicity of the biological father or mother in case the adopted child has already identified his or her biological father or mother.
4. Ethnicity re-determination for persons aged between full fifteen and under eighteen years must be consented by such persons.
5. It is forbidden to take advantage of the ethnic re-determination for the purpose of making profit or causing division or harming the unity of the Vietnamese ethnic groups.

Article 30. Right to birth and death registration
1. Individuals from birth have the right to have birth registration.
2. Dead individuals must be declared dead.
3. Children who live for twenty-four hours or more before they die must have their births and deaths declared; If they are born and live for less than twenty-four hours, they are not required to register their birth and death, unless requested by their biological father or mother.
4. Birth and death registration shall be prescribed by the civil status law.

Article 31. Right to nationality
1. Individuals have the right to have nationality.
2. The identification, change, importation, withdrawal and return of Vietnamese nationality shall be prescribed by the Law on Vietnamese nationality.
3. The rights of stateless people residing and living in the Vietnamese territory are guaranteed by law.

Article 32. Rights of individuals to images
1. Individuals have rights to their own images.
The use of an individual's image must be consented to by that person.
The use of other people's images for commercial purposes must pay remuneration to the person having the image, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
2. The use of images in the following cases does not require the consent of the person having the image or their legal representative:
a) The image is used for national, ethnic or public interests;
b) Images are used from public activities, including conferences, seminars, sports competitions, art performances and other public activities without damaging honor and dignity. , the reputation of the person with the image.
3. If the use of images violates the provisions of this Article, the image holder has the right to request the court to issue a decision to force the violator, relevant agencies, organizations and individuals to withdraw and destroy them. cancel, terminate the use of images, compensate for damage and apply other handling measures as prescribed by law.

Article 33. Right to life, right to safety of life, health and body
1. Individuals have the right to life, the inviolability of life and body, and the right to be protected by law in terms of health. No one shall be unlawfully deprived of his life.
2. When detecting a person suffering from an accident or disease whose life is threatened, the discoverer shall have to take responsibility or request other individuals, agencies or organizations with necessary conditions to immediately bring them to medical examination and treatment establishments. nearest medical treatment; medical examination and treatment establishments shall provide medical examination and treatment in accordance with the law on medical examination and treatment.
3. Anesthesia, surgery, removal and transplantation of human tissues and organs; implement new techniques and methods of medical examination and treatment on the human body; medical, pharmacological, scientific or any other form of testing on the human body must be approved by the person and must be performed by an authorized organization.
In case the person being tested is a minor, a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity, a person with difficulties in cognition or behavior control, or is an unconscious patient, his/her father, mother, spouse, consent of the minor's child or guardian; In case there is a risk of threatening the patient's life without waiting for the opinions of the above-mentioned persons, a decision of a competent person of the medical examination and treatment establishment must be obtained.
4. The autopsy shall be performed in one of the following cases:
a) Having the consent of that person before death;
b) Having the consent of the father, mother, wife, husband, adult child or guardian, if the consent of such person is not obtained before death;
c) According to the decision of the head of the medical examination and treatment establishment or of a competent state agency in the case prescribed by law.

Article 34. Right to protection of honor, dignity and prestige
1. An individual's honor, dignity and reputation are inviolable and protected by law.
2. Individuals have the right to request the Court to reject information that adversely affects their honor, dignity and reputation.
The protection of honor, dignity and prestige may be done after the death of an individual at the request of a spouse or adult child; in the absence of such persons, at the request of the deceased's father or mother, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
3. Information that adversely affects an individual's honor, dignity and reputation posted on any mass media must be removed and rectified by such mass media. If this information is kept by agencies, organizations or individuals, it must be destroyed.
4. In case it is not possible to identify the person who gave the news, which adversely affects his/her honor, dignity and reputation, the person being informed has the right to request the court to declare that information is not true.
5. An individual whose honor, dignity and reputation is adversely affected by information, in addition to the right to request the rejection of such information, also has the right to demand an apology, public correction and compensation from the person giving the information. damages.

Article 35. Right to donate and receive human tissues and organs and to donate and take corpses
1. Individuals have the right to donate their own tissues and organs while they are still alive, or to donate their own tissues and organs, or to donate their bodies after death for the purpose of treating other people's diseases or doing medical or pharmacological research. and other scientific studies.
2. Individuals have the right to receive other people's tissues and organs for medical treatment. Competent medical examination and treatment establishments and legal persons in charge of scientific research have the right to receive human organs, take corpses for medical treatment, conduct medical and pharmaceutical experiments and conduct other scientific researches.
3. The donation, collection of human tissues and organs, donation and collection of corpses must comply with the conditions and comply with the provisions of this Code, the Law on donation, collection and transplantation of human tissues and organs. and donation, body collection and other relevant laws.

Article 36. Right to gender reassignment
1. Individuals have the right to redefine gender.
The re-determination of a person's sex is carried out in cases where the person's gender is born with a birth defect or has not been correctly shaped but requires medical intervention to determine the gender.
2. Gender re-determination shall comply with the provisions of law.
3. Individuals who have undergone gender reassignment have the right and obligation to register for civil status change in accordance with the law on civil status; have moral rights in accordance with the redefined gender in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws.

Article 37. Sex change
The sex change is done in accordance with the law. Individuals who have changed sex have the right and obligation to register for a change of civil status in accordance with the law on civil status; have moral rights in accordance with the converted gender in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws.

Article 38. Right to private life, personal secrets and family secrets
1. Private life, personal secrets, family secrets are inviolable and protected by law.
2. The collection, storage, use and disclosure of information related to private life and personal secrets must be consented to by that person, and the collection, storage, use and disclosure of related information relating to family secrets must be agreed by family members, unless otherwise provided for by law.
3. Letters, telephones, telegrams, electronic databases and other forms of exchange of private information of individuals shall be kept safe and confidential.
The opening, controlling and seizure of other people's correspondence, telephone, telegram, electronic databases and other forms of exchanging private information shall be carried out only in cases prescribed by law.
4. The parties to a contract must not disclose information about each other's private life, personal secrets, and family secrets that they have known during the process of establishing and performing the contract, unless there is a other agreement.

Article 39. Moral rights in marriage and family
1. Individuals have the right to marriage, divorce, equality of husband and wife, right to identify father, mother and child, right to be adopted, right to adopt children and other personal rights in the marital relationship. , parent-child relationships and relationships between family members.
Children born regardless of the marital status of their parents have the same rights and obligations towards their parents.
2. Individuals shall exercise their moral rights in marriage and family in accordance with the provisions of this Code, the Law on Marriage and Family and other relevant laws.

Section 3. RESIDENCE
Article 40. Place of residence of individuals
1. An individual's place of residence is the place where he/she regularly lives.
2. Where an individual's place of residence cannot be determined as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the individual's place of residence is the place where he/she is currently living.
3. Where a party in a civil relationship changes his/her place of residence in association with the exercise of his/her rights and obligations, he/she must notify the other party of the new place of residence.

Article 41. Place of residence of minors
1. The place of residence of a minor is the place of residence of his or her father or mother; if the parents have different places of residence, the place of residence of the minor is the place of residence of the father or mother with which the minor regularly lives.
2. A minor may have a place of residence different from that of his or her father or mother if so consented by the father or mother or provided for by law.
Article 42. Place of residence of the ward
1. The ward's place of residence is the guardian's place of residence.
2. The ward may have a place of residence different from that of the guardian, if so agreed by the guardian or as provided for by law.

Article 43. Place of residence of husband and wife
1. The place of residence of the husband and wife is the place where the husband and wife regularly live together.
2. Husband and wife may have different places of residence if so agreed.

Article 44. Military place of residence
1. The place of residence of a soldier performing his military service is the place where such soldier's unit is stationed.
2. The place of residence of a military officer, professional soldier, national defense worker or officer is the place where his or her unit is stationed, unless they have a place of residence as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 40 of this Law. This Code.

Article 45. Place of residence of itinerant workers
The place of residence of an itinerant worker on a ship, boat or other means of mobile practice is the place where such ship, boat or vehicle is registered, unless they have a place of residence as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 40 of this Law. This Code.

Section 4. GUARDIAN
Article 46. Guardianship
1. Guardianship means an individual or legal entity prescribed by law, appointed by the commune-level People's Committee, appointed by a court or prescribed in Clause 2, Article 48 of this Code (hereinafter collectively referred to as the guardian). guardian) to take care of and protect the lawful rights and interests of minors, people who have lost their civil act capacity, and people with difficulties in cognition and behavior control (hereinafter collectively referred to as guardians). is a ward).
2. In case of guardianship for a person who has difficulty in cognition or behavior control, the consent of such person must be obtained if they are capable of expressing their will at the time of request.
3. The guardianship must be registered at a competent state agency in accordance with the law on civil status.
The natural guardian who does not register the guardianship shall still have to perform the guardian's obligations.

Article 47. Guardians
1. The ward includes:
a) The minor has no father or mother or the father or mother cannot be identified;
b) A minor has a father or mother, but both parents have lost their civil act capacity; both parents have difficulties in perception and behavior control; both parents have limited civil act capacity; both parents have been declared by the Court to have limited rights to their children; both parents are unable to care for and educate their children and require a guardian;
c) Persons who have lost their civil act capacity;
d) People with difficulties in perception and behavior control.
2. A person can only have one guardian, except where the father and mother jointly supervise the child or the grandparent co-guards the grandchild.

Article 48. Guardians
1. Individuals and legal entities that fully satisfy the conditions specified in this Code may act as guardians.
2. In case a person with full civil act capacity chooses a guardian for him/her, when he/she is in a state of need of guardianship, an individual or legal entity may be selected as a guardian if he/she agrees. The selection of a guardian must be made in writing, notarized or authenticated.
3. An individual or legal entity may be the guardian for many people.

Article 49. Conditions for individuals to act as guardians
An individual who meets the following conditions may act as a guardian:
1. Having full civil act capacity.
2. Having good moral character and necessary conditions to exercise the rights and obligations of the guardian.
3. Not being a person who is being examined for penal liability or a person who has been convicted but has not had his or her criminal record cleared for one of the crimes of intentionally infringing upon the life, health, honor, dignity and property of the person. other.
4. Not a person whose rights have been restricted by the Court.

Article 50. Conditions for legal entities to act as guardians
Legal entities that fully meet the following conditions may act as guardians:
1. Having civil legal capacity suitable for guardianship.
2. Having necessary conditions to exercise the guardian's rights and obligations.

Article 51. Supervision of guardianship
1. Relatives of wards shall agree to appoint guardians from among their relatives or select other individuals or legal entities as guardians.
The appointment and selection of guardians must be approved by that person. In case the guardianship supervision is related to the management of the ward's property, the custodian must register it at the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the ward resides.
Relatives of the ward are the ward's wife, husband, father, mother and children; if none of these persons are present, the ward's next of kin is the ward's grandfather, grandmother, biological brother, sister or younger brother; if none of these people are present, the ward's next of kin is the ward's biological uncle, uncle, aunt, biological aunt or uncle.
2. If there is no relative of the ward or the relatives do not appoint or select a guardian as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the ward resides guardian appoints an individual or legal entity to supervise the guardianship. In case there is a dispute over the appointment or selection of guardianship supervisors, the Court shall decide.
3. The guardians must have full civil act capacity if they are individuals, and have civil legal capacity suitable for supervision if they are legal entities; have the necessary conditions to carry out the supervision.
4. Guardianship supervisors have the following rights and obligations:
a) Monitor and examine guardians in the performance of guardianship;
b) To consider and give timely written opinions on the establishment and performance of civil transactions specified in Article 59 of this Code;
c) Request the competent state agency in charge of guardianship to consider changing or terminating the guardianship, supervision of the guardianship.

Article 52. Natural guardian of minors
Natural guardians of minors specified at Points a and b, Clause 1, Article 47 of this Code are determined in the following order:
1. The older brother is the eldest brother or the older sister is the guardian who is the guardian; if the eldest brother or sister does not fully meet the conditions to act as a guardian, the next biological brother or sister shall be the guardian, unless otherwise agreed upon by another biological brother or sister to act as the guardian.
2. If there is no guardian specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the grandfather, grandmother, maternal grandfather or grandmother shall be the guardian or these persons shall agree to appoint one or several of them as the guardian. household.
3. If there is no guardian specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the biological uncle, biological uncle, biological uncle, biological aunt or biological aunt shall be the guardian.

Article 53. Natural guardian of a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity
If there is no guardian as prescribed in Clause 2, Article 48 of this Code, the natural guardian of a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity is determined as follows:
1. In case the wife is a person who has lost her civil act capacity, the husband shall be the guardian; if the husband is incapacitated for civil acts, the wife shall be the guardian.
2. Where both parents have lost their civil act capacity or one of them has lost their civil act capacity and the other is ineligible to act as a guardian, the eldest child is the guardian; if the eldest child is not eligible to act as a guardian, the next child who is eligible to act as a guardian is the guardian.
3. In case an adult who has lost his/her civil act capacity has no wife, husband, or children or has a spouse or child who is not fully qualified to act as a guardian, his/her father or mother is the guardian.

Article 54. Appointment and appointment of guardians
1. In case a minor or a person who has lost his or her civil act capacity has no natural guardian as prescribed in Articles 52 and 53 of this Code, the commune-level People's Committee of the place where such person resides guardian is responsible for appointing a guardian.
In case there is a dispute between the guardians specified in Articles 52 and 53 of this Code about the guardian or the dispute over the appointment of the guardian, the Court shall appoint the guardian.
In case of appointing or appointing a guardian for a minor who is full six years old or older, the wishes of this person must be considered.
2. The appointment of a guardian must be approved by the person appointed as a guardian.
3. The appointment of a guardian must be made in writing, clearly stating the reason for appointing the guardian, the specific rights and obligations of the guardian, and the status of the ward's property.
4. Except for the case specified in Clause 2, Article 48 of this Code, guardians of persons with cognitive and behavioral difficulties shall be appointed by the Court among the guardians specified in Article 48 of this Code. 53 of this Code. In case there is no guardian as prescribed above, the Court appoints a guardian or recommends a legal person to perform the guardianship.

Article 55. Obligations of guardians towards wards who are under fifteen years of age
1. To take care of and educate the ward.
2. Representing the ward in civil transactions, except where the law stipulates that a person under fifteen years of age can establish and perform civil transactions by himself or herself.
3. Manage the ward's assets.
4. To protect the ward's lawful rights and interests.

Article 56. Obligations of the guardian towards the ward from full fifteen years old to under eighteen years old
1. Representing the ward in civil transactions, except for cases where the law stipulates that persons aged between full fifteen and under eighteen years may enter into and perform civil transactions by themselves.
2. Manage the ward's property, unless otherwise provided for by law.
3. To protect the ward's lawful rights and interests.

Article 57. Obligations of guardians towards wards who have lost their civil act capacity and who have difficulties in cognition and behavior control
1. The guardian of a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity has the following obligations:
a) Take care of and ensure the treatment of diseases for the ward;
b) Representing the ward in civil transactions;
c) Manage the ward's property;
d) Protect the ward's lawful rights and interests.
2. The guardian of a person who has difficulty in cognition or behavior control has obligations under the Court's decision among the obligations specified in Clause 1 of this Article.

Article 58. Rights of guardians
1. Guardians of minors or persons who have lost their civil act capacity have the following rights:
a) Use the ward's property to take care of and spend on essential needs of the ward;
b) To be paid reasonable expenses for the management of the ward's property;
c) Representing the ward in establishing and performing civil transactions and exercising other rights as prescribed by law in order to protect the ward's lawful rights and interests.
2. The guardian of a person who has difficulty in cognition or behavior control has the rights under the court's decision among the rights specified in Clause 1 of this Article.

Article 59. Management of the ward's property
1. The guardian of a minor or a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity is responsible for managing the ward's property as his/her own property; may perform civil transactions related to the ward's property for the benefit of the ward.
The sale, exchange, lease, loan, loan, pledge, mortgage, deposit and other civil transactions of the ward's property of great value must be approved by the custodian. supervision.
The guardian may not give the ward's property to another person. Civil transactions between guardians and wards related to the ward's assets are invalid, except in cases where the transactions are made for the ward's benefit and consent is obtained. of the guardianship supervisor.
2. The guardian of the person who has difficulty in perception or behavior control may manage the ward's property according to the court's decision within the scope specified in Clause 1 of this Article.

Article 60. Change of guardian
1. The guardian may be changed in the following cases:
a) The guardian no longer fully meets the conditions specified in Article 49, Article 50 of this Code;
b) The guardian being an individual dies or is declared by a court to have limited civil act capacity, has difficulties in cognition or behavior control, has lost civil act capacity, or is missing; juridical person acting as guardian ceases to exist;
c) The guardian seriously violates the guardianship obligation;
d) The guardian requests to be changed and another person accepts it as guardian.
2. In case of change of natural guardian, the persons specified in Articles 52 and 53 of this Code shall be the natural guardian; if there is no natural guardian, the appointment or appointment of a guardian shall comply with the provisions of Article 54 of this Code.
3. Procedures for changing guardians shall comply with the law on civil status.

Article 61. Transfer of guardianship
1. When changing a guardian, within 15 days from the date of having a new guardian, the person who has performed the guardianship must transfer the guardianship to his replacement.
2. The guardianship transfer must be made in writing, clearly stating the reason for the transfer and the status of the ward's property and other related issues at the time of transfer. The agency that appoints or appoints a guardian or a guardian shall witness the guardianship transfer.
3. In case of change of guardian as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 60 of this Code, the agency appointing or appointing the guardian shall make a written record, clearly stating the property status and other relevant issues of the beneficiary. guardianship, rights and obligations arising during the performance of guardianship shall be transferred to the new guardian in the presence of the guardian supervising the guardianship.

Article 62. Termination of guardianship
1. The guardianship terminates in the following cases:
a) The ward has full civil act capacity;
b) The ward dies;
c) The ward's parents are minors who have fully met the conditions to exercise their rights and perform their obligations;
d) The ward is adopted.
2. Procedures for terminating guardianship comply with the law on civil status.

Article 63. Consequences of termination of guardianship
1. In case the ward has had full civil act capacity, within 15 days from the date of termination of the guardianship, the guardian shall settle the property with the ward, transfer his/her rights to the ward. , obligations arising from civil transactions for the benefit of the ward for the ward.
2. In case the ward dies, within 3 months from the date of termination of guardianship, the guardian shall pay the property to the heir or hand over the property to the administrator of the ward's estate. household, transferring rights and obligations arising from civil transactions for the benefit of the ward to the ward's heirs; If that time limit expires but the heir has not yet been identified, the guardian shall continue to manage the ward's property until the property is settled in accordance with the law on inheritance and notify the Commissioner. the commune-level People's Committee of the place of residence of the ward.
3. In case of termination of guardianship specified at Points c and d, Clause 1, Article 62 of this Code, within 15 days from the date of termination of guardianship, the guardian shall pay the property and transfer the property. assigning rights and obligations arising from civil transactions for the benefit of the ward to the ward's father or mother.
4. The payment of property and the transfer of rights and obligations specified in this Article shall be made in writing with the supervision of the guardianship supervisor.

Section 5. NOTICE OF FINDING PEOPLE AWESOME AT RESIDENCE, DECLARATION OF LOST, DECLARATION OF DEATH

Article 64. Request for notice of search of a person absent from his/her place of residence and property management
When a person has been missing for 6 consecutive months or more, persons with related rights and interests have the right to request the court to notify the search for the person who is absent from his/her place of residence in accordance with the civil procedure law and has may request the Court to apply measures to manage the property of the person absent from the place of residence specified in Article 65 of this Code.

Article 65. Asset management of persons absent from the place of residence
1. At the request of a person with related rights and interests, the Court shall hand over the property of the person absent from his/her place of residence to the following persons for management:
a) With respect to the property authorized to be managed by the absent person, the authorized person shall continue to manage it;
b) The common property shall be managed by the remaining common owner;
c) With respect to the property currently managed by the spouse, the spouse shall continue to manage; if a spouse dies or loses civil act capacity, has difficulties in cognition, acts control, or has limited civil act capacity, the adult children or the father or mother of the absent person shall manage.
2. If there are no persons specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the Court shall appoint one of the relatives of the person absent from the place of residence to manage the property; if there are no relatives, the Court appoints another person to manage the property.

Article 66. Obligations of the property manager of the person absent from the place of residence
1. Preserve and preserve the property of the absent person as if it were his/her own property.
2. Immediately sell assets that are crops and other products at risk of being damaged.
3. To perform the alimony, payment of due debts and other financial obligations of the absent person with his/her property according to the court's decision.
4. Return the property to the absent person when he/she returns and must notify the Court; If there is an error in the management of the property, causing damage, it must compensate.

Article 67. Rights of property managers of persons absent from the place of residence
1. Manage the property of the absentee.
2. Deduct part of the absentee's property to fulfill the alimony obligation, payment obligation of due debt and other financial obligations of the absentee.
3. To be paid the necessary expenses in managing the property of the absent person.

Article 68. Declaration of missing
1. When a person has been missing for 2 consecutive years or more, even though all measures of notification and search have been applied in accordance with the civil procedure law, there is still no reliable information about the person's identity. If such person is alive or dead, at the request of a person with related rights and interests, the Court may declare such person missing.
The time limit of 02 years is counted from the date of knowing the last information about that person; if the date of last news cannot be determined, this time limit shall be counted from the first day of the month following the month of last news; if the date and month with the last information cannot be determined, this time limit shall be counted from the first day of the year following the year with the last information.
2. In case the spouse of the person who is declared missing applies for a divorce, the court shall grant the divorce in accordance with the law on marriage and family.
3. The court's decision declaring a person missing must be sent to the commune-level People's Committee of the last place of residence of the person declared missing for notes in accordance with the civil status law.

Article 69. Property management of persons declared missing
The person who is managing the property of a person absent from his/her place of residence specified in Article 65 of this Code shall continue to manage such person's property when such person is declared missing by a court and has the rights and obligations prescribed by law. prescribed in Articles 66 and 67 of this Code.
In case the Court grants divorce to the spouses of the person declared missing, the property of the missing person shall be assigned to the minor children or the parents of the missing person for management; if these people are not available, they shall be assigned to the relatives of the missing person for management; if there are no relatives, the Court appoints another person to manage the property.

Article 70. Cancellation of the decision to declare missing
1. When a person who has been declared missing returns or has reliable information that such person is still alive, at the request of that person or a person with related rights and interests, the court shall issue a decision to annul the decision to declare such person missing. missing father for that person.
2. The person who is declared missing will return to receive the property transferred by the property manager after the management fee has been paid.
3. In case the spouse of the person declared missing has been divorced, even if the person declared missing returns or there is reliable information that such person is still alive, the decision for divorce is still legally effective. the law.
4. The court's decision to annul the decision declaring a person missing must be sent to the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the person is declared missing for taking notes in accordance with the civil status law.

Article 71. Declaration of death
1. Persons with related rights and interests may request the Court to issue a decision declaring a person dead in the following cases:
a) After 03 years, from the effective date of the Court's decision declaring missing, there is still no reliable information that he is still alive;
b) Disappeared during the war 5 years after the end of the war, but there is still no reliable information that he is still alive;
c) Having an accident or disaster or natural disaster but after 02 years from the date of the accident or disaster, there is still no reliable information that he is still alive, unless otherwise provided for by law. ;
d) He has been missing for 5 consecutive years or more and there is no reliable information that he is still alive; This time limit is calculated according to the provisions of Clause 1, Article 68 of this Code.
2. Based on the cases specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the Court shall determine the date of death of the person who is declared dead.
3. The court's decision declaring a person dead must be sent to the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the person is declared dead for notes in accordance with the civil status law.

Article 72. Personal relationship and property relationship of a person who is declared dead by a court
1. When a court's decision declaring a person dead takes legal effect, the marriage, family and other personal relationships of that person shall be settled as if the deceased person was dead.
2. The property relations of the person declared dead by the Court shall be settled in the same way as for the deceased person; that person's property shall be settled in accordance with the law on inheritance.

Article 73. Cancellation of the decision on death declaration
1. When a person who has been declared dead returns or has reliable information that such person is still alive, at the request of such person or a person with related rights and interests, the Court shall issue a decision to annul the decision. to declare the person dead.
2. The personal relationship of a person declared dead shall be restored when the court issues a decision to annul the decision declaring that person dead, except for the following cases:
a) If the spouse of a person who is declared dead has been granted a divorce by the Court as prescribed in Clause 2, Article 68 of this Code, the divorce decision will still be legally effective;
b) If the spouse of the person who is declared dead has married another person, such marriage is still legally valid.
3. Persons who are declared dead but still alive have the right to request those who have received inherited property to return their existing property and property value.
In case the heir of a person who is declared dead knows that this person is still alive but deliberately conceals it in order to inherit, he/she must return the entire property received, including yields and profits; If damage is caused, compensation must be made.
4. Property relations between husband and wife shall be settled according to the provisions of this Code and the Law on Marriage and Family.
5. The court's decision to annul the decision declaring a person dead must be sent to the commune-level People's Committee of the place where the person is declared dead for notes in accordance with the law on households. president.

Chapter IV
LEGAL

Article 74. Legal person
1. An organization is recognized as a legal entity when it fully meets the following conditions:
a) Established under the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws;
b) Having an organizational structure as prescribed in Article 83 of this Code;
c) Having assets independent of other individuals or legal entities and taking responsibility for their own property;
d) Independently participate in legal relations in their own name.
2. Every individual or juridical person has the right to establish a juridical person, unless otherwise provided for by law.
Article 75. Commercial legal entities
1. Commercial legal entity is a legal entity whose main objective is to seek profits and to distribute profits to members.
2. Commercial legal entities include enterprises and other economic organizations.
3. The establishment, operation and termination of commercial legal entities shall comply with the provisions of this Code, the Enterprise Law and other relevant laws.

Article 76. Non-commercial legal entities
1. Non-commercial legal entity means a legal entity whose main objective is to seek profit; If there is a profit, it is not distributed among the members.
2. Non-commercial legal entities include state agencies, people's armed forces units, political organizations, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations, and organizations. social-professional organizations, social funds, charitable foundations, social enterprises and other non-commercial organizations.
3. The establishment, operation and termination of non-commercial legal entities shall comply with the provisions of this Code, the laws on the organization of the state apparatus and other relevant laws.

Article 77. Charter of legal entities
1. A juridical person must have a charter if so provided for by law.
2. The charter of a juridical person has the following principal contents:
a) Name of the legal person;
b) Purpose and scope of operation of the legal person;
c) Head office; branches, representative offices, if any;
d) Charter capital, if any;
d) Legal representative at law;
e) Organizational structure; the form of appointment, election, appointment, relief from duty, dismissal, duties and powers of the titles of the executive agency and other agencies;
g) Conditions for becoming a member or no longer being a member of a legal entity, if it is a legal entity with members;
h) Rights and obligations of members, if it is a legal entity with members;
i) Procedures for passing decisions of legal entities; internal dispute settlement principles;
k) Procedures for amending and supplementing the charter;
l) Conditions for consolidation, merger, division, separation, transformation, or dissolution of the legal entity.

Article 78. Names of legal entities
1. The legal entity must have its name in Vietnamese.
2. The name of the legal person must clearly show the type of organization of the legal person and distinguish it from other legal entities in the same field of operation.
3. Legal persons must use their names in civil transactions.
4. The name of the legal person is recognized and protected by law.

Article 79. Head office of a legal person
1. The head office of a legal person is the place where the executive agency of the legal person is located. In case of change of head office, the legal entity must make a public announcement.
2. The contact address of the legal person is the address of the head office of the legal person. The legal entity may choose another location as a contact address.
Article 80. Nationality of legal persons
A legal person established under Vietnamese law is a Vietnamese legal person.

Article 81. Property of legal persons
Property of a juridical person includes the contributed capital of the owner, founder, members of the juridical person and other property to which the juridical person is established in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws.

Article 82. Establishment and registration of legal entities
1. A legal person is established on the initiative of a natural or legal person or under a decision of a competent state agency.
2. Legal entity registration includes registration of establishment, registration of changes and other registrations as prescribed by law.
3. The registration of legal entities must be made public.

Article 83. Organizational structure of legal persons
1. A legal person must have an executive agency. The organization, tasks and powers of the executive body of the legal person are stipulated in the charter of the legal person or in the decision on the establishment of the legal person.
2. The legal person has another agency under the decision of the legal person or according to the provisions of law.
Article 84. Branches and representative offices of legal entities
1. Branches and representative offices are dependent units of legal entities, not legal entities.
2. The branch is responsible for performing all or part of the functions of the legal entity.
3. Representative offices have the task of representing within the scope assigned by the juridical person and protecting the interests of the juridical person.
4. The establishment and termination of a branch or representative office of a legal person must be registered in accordance with law and made public.
5. The head of the branch or representative office shall perform the tasks authorized by the legal entity within the scope and duration of the authorization.
6. Legal persons have civil rights and obligations arising from civil transactions established and performed by branches or representative offices.
Article 85. Representative of legal persons
The representative of a legal person can be a legal representative or an authorized representative. The representative of a legal person must comply with the provisions on representation in Chapter IX of this Part.
Article 86. Civil legal capacity of legal persons
1. The civil legal capacity of a juridical person is the capacity of a juridical person to have civil rights and obligations. The civil legal capacity of a juridical person is not restricted, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
2. The civil legal capacity of a juridical person arises from the time of establishment or permission for establishment by a competent state agency; if the juridical person must register its operation, the civil legal capacity of the juridical person shall arise from the time of recording in the register.
3. The civil legal capacity of a juridical person terminates from the time of termination of the juridical person.
Article 87. Civil liability of legal persons
1. A juridical person must bear civil responsibility for the performance of civil rights and obligations established and performed by its representative in the name of the juridical person.
A legal person shall bear civil liability for obligations established and performed by a founder or a founder's representative in order to establish and register a legal entity, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided by law.
2. A legal person shall bear civil liability with its property; shall not be liable on behalf of a person of the legal entity for civil obligations established or performed by a person of the legal entity not in the name of the legal person, unless otherwise provided for by law.
3. Persons of the juridical person shall not take civil liability on behalf of the juridical person for civil obligations established and performed by the juridical person, unless otherwise provided for by law.
Article 88. Consolidation of legal entities
1. Legal entities may merge into a new legal entity.
2. After consolidation, the old legal entities cease to exist from the time the new legal entities are established; The civil rights and obligations of the old legal person are transferred to the new legal person.
Article 89. Merger of legal entities
1. A juridical person may be merged (hereinafter referred to as the merged juridical person) into another juridical person (hereinafter referred to as the merged juridical person).
2. After the merger, the merged legal entity ceases to exist; The civil rights and obligations of the merged juridical person are transferred to the merging juridical person.
Article 90. Division of legal entities
1. A legal person can be divided into many legal entities.
2. After division, the divided legal entity ceases to exist; The civil rights and obligations of the divided legal entity are transferred to the new legal entities.
Article 91. Separation of legal entities
1. A juridical person may be divided into many juridical persons.
2. After separation, the separated juridical person and the separated juridical person shall exercise their civil rights and perform their civil obligations in accordance with the operation purposes.
Article 92. Transformation of legal entities
1. A legal person may be transformed into another legal entity.
2. After the transformation of the form, the converted juridical person ceases to exist from the time the converted juridical person is established; The converted juridical person inherits the civil rights and obligations of the converted juridical person.
Article 93. Dissolution of legal persons
1. A legal person is dissolved in the following cases:
a) According to the provisions of the charter;
b) According to a decision of a competent state agency;
c) The operation duration stated in the charter or decision of the competent state agency expires;
d) Other cases as prescribed by law.
2. Before dissolution, a legal person must fulfill all property obligations.
Article 94. Property settlement of dissolved legal entities
1. The assets of the dissolved juridical person shall be paid in the following order:
a) Expenses for dissolution of the legal entity;
b) Debts in salary, severance allowance, social insurance, health insurance for employees as prescribed by law and other benefits of employees under collective labor agreement and contract signed labor contract;
c) Tax debt and other debts.
2. After all expenses for dissolution of the legal entity and debts have been paid, the remainder shall belong to the legal entity owner and capital-contributing members, except for the case specified in Clause 3 of this Article or applicable law. other rule.
3. Where the social fund or charity fund has paid off all dissolution costs and debts specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the remaining assets shall be transferred to another fund with the same operational purpose.
In case there is no other fund with the same operational purpose to receive the transferred assets or the fund is dissolved due to activities that violate the prohibitions of the law or are contrary to social ethics, the assets of the dissolved fund shall belong to the State.
Article 95. Bankruptcy of legal entities
Bankruptcy of a legal entity shall comply with the bankruptcy law.
Article 96. Termination of existence of legal entities
1. A legal entity ceases to exist in the following cases:
a) Consolidation, merger, division, transformation, dissolution of legal entities as prescribed in Articles 88, 89, 90, 92 and 93 of this Code;
b) Being declared bankrupt in accordance with the bankruptcy law.
2. A legal entity ceases to exist from the time of deletion of its name in the legal entity register or from the time determined in a decision of a competent state agency.
3. When a juridical person ceases to exist, its property shall be settled in accordance with this Code and other relevant laws.
Chapter V
STATE OF THE SOCIAL REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, STATE AGENCIES AT THE CENTRAL, LOCAL IN CIVIL RELATIONS
Article 97. State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies in civil relations
The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies, when participating in civil relations, are equal to other subjects and bear civil liability according to the provisions of Articles 99 and Article 100 of this Code.
Article 98. Representation in civil relations
The representation of the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies in civil relations shall comply with the provisions of law on functions, tasks and powers. and organizational structure of state agencies. The representation through other individuals or legal entities is only done in the cases and according to the order and procedures prescribed by law.
Article 99. Liability for civil obligations
1. The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies are responsible for their civil obligations with the property of which they are representative owners and uniformly manage them. , except where the property has been transferred to a juridical person as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. A legal person established by the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a central state agency or a local authority is not responsible for obligations arising from civil relations of the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Vietnameseism, state agencies at the central and local levels.
3. The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies are not responsible for the civil obligations of juridical persons established by them, including state enterprises, except in case the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a central or local state agency guarantees the civil obligations of this legal person in accordance with law.
4. Central and local state agencies are not responsible for the civil obligations of the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, other central or local state agencies, except for the following cases: The relevant law provides otherwise.
Article 100. Liability for civil obligations of the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies in civil relations with the State, legal entity or individual on the other. foreign
1. The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies are responsible for the civil obligations they have established with foreign states, legal entities or individuals in case of The following:
a) An international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory contains provisions on waiver of immunity;
b) The parties in the civil relationship have agreed to waive immunity;
c) The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies waive immunity.
2. Responsibility for civil obligations of the state and foreign state agencies when entering into civil relations with the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local state agencies , Vietnamese legal entities and individuals may apply similarly to Clause 1 of this Article.
Chapter VI
HOUSEHOLDS, COOPERATIVES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS WITHOUT CIVIL RELATIONSHIP
Article 101. Subjects in civil relations with the participation of households, cooperative groups or other organizations without legal status
1. Where a household, cooperative group or other organization without legal status participates in a civil relationship, members of the household, cooperative group or other organization without legal status are subjects participating in the establishment and performance of civil transactions or authorizing representatives to participate in the establishment and performance of civil transactions. The authorization must be made in writing, unless otherwise agreed. When there is a change of the representative, the parties to civil relations must be informed.
If a member of a household, cooperative group or other organization without legal status participating in a civil relationship is not authorized by other members to act as a representative, that member is the subject of the civil relationship. civil affairs established and performed by themselves.
2. The identification of subjects of civil relations with the participation of land-using households shall comply with the provisions of the Land Law.
Article 102. Common property of members of households, cooperative groups and other organizations without legal status
1. The determination of common property of household members, rights and obligations to this property shall be determined according to the provisions of Article 212 of this Code.
2. The determination of the common property of the members of the cooperative group, and the rights and obligations to this property shall be determined according to the provisions of Article 506 of this Code.
3. The determination of common property of members of another organization without legal person status, rights and obligations to this property shall be determined by agreement of the members, unless otherwise provided for by law. other determination.
Article 103. Civil liability of members of households, cooperative groups and other organizations without legal status
1. Civil obligations arising from the participation in civil relations of households, cooperative groups or other organizations without legal status are secured by the common property of members.
2. Where members do not have or do not have enough common property to perform a common obligation, the obligee may request the members to perform the obligation as prescribed in Article 288 of this Code.
3. If the parties do not reach an agreement, cooperation contract or the law does not provide otherwise, the members shall bear the civil liability specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article according to the part corresponding to their financial contribution. property, if it cannot be determined according to the corresponding part, it shall be determined according to the equal part.
Article 104. Legal consequences for civil transactions established and performed by members who do not have the right to represent or exceed the scope of representation
1. In case a member does not have the right to represent, but establishes and performs civil transactions in the name of other members of the household, cooperative group, other organization without legal status, or an authorized representative. If the transaction is established or performed beyond the scope of representation, the legal consequences of the transaction shall be applied according to the provisions of Articles 130, 142 and 143 of this Code.
2. Civil transactions established and performed by a party without the right of representation or beyond the scope of representation, causing damage to other members of the household, cooperative group or other organization without legal status a person or a third person must compensate the person suffering damage.
Chapter VII
ASSET
Article 105. Property
1. Property means objects, money, valuable papers and property rights.
2. Property includes immovable property and movable property. Real estate and movables can be existing assets and assets formed in the future.
Article 106. Property registration
1. Ownership rights and other rights to property being real property shall be registered in accordance with this Code and the law on property registration.
2. Ownership rights and other rights to movable property are not required to be registered, unless otherwise provided for by the law on property registration.
3. Property registration must be made public.
Article 107. Real estate and movable property
1. Real estate includes:
a) Land;
b) Houses, construction works attached to land;
c) Other properties attached to land, houses and construction works;
d) Other property as prescribed by law.
2. Immovables are assets that are not real estate.
Article 108. Existing assets and assets to be formed in the future
1. Existing property means property that has been formed and the subject has established ownership and other rights to the property before or at the time of transaction.
2. Assets formed in the future include:
a) Unformed assets;
b) The property has been formed but the subject establishes the ownership of the property after the time of establishing the transaction.
Article 109. Profits and profits
1. Yields are natural products that property brings.
2. Profit is the profit earned from the exploitation of property.
Article 110. Main and auxiliary objects
1. The main object is an independent object that can be used according to its features.
2. An auxiliary object is an object that directly serves the exploitation of the main object's utility, is a part of the main object, but can be separated from the main object.
3. When performing the obligation to transfer the main object, the auxiliary object must also be transferred, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 111. Divisible and indivisible objects
1. A divisible object is an object that, when divided, retains its original properties and usability.
2. An indivisible object is an object that, when divided, cannot keep its original properties and uses.
When it is necessary to divide things that cannot be divided, they must have a monetary value to divide.
Article 112. Consumables and non-consumables
1. Consumables are objects that, after being used once, lose or fail to retain their original usable properties, shapes and functions.
Consumables cannot be the subject of a lease or loan agreement.
2. A non-consumable object is an object that, after being used many times, basically retains its original properties, shape and usability.
Article 113. Objects of the same type and specific objects
1. Objects of the same type are objects that have the same shape, properties, usability and can be determined by measurement units.
Items of the same quality are interchangeable.
2. A specific object is an object that can be distinguished from other objects by its own characteristics of symbols, shapes, colors, materials, characteristics and positions.
When performing the obligation to hand over a particular object, the correct object must be delivered.
Article 114. Synchronized objects
Synchronized object is an object consisting of parts or parts that fit together and are related to each other to form a whole, but if one of the parts or parts is missing, or there are parts or parts that are not in accordance with the specifications and types, they cannot be used. usable or the use value of the object is reduced.
When performing the obligation to transfer the synchronous object, all parts or components must be transferred, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 115. Property rights
Property rights are rights valued in money, including property rights over intellectual property rights, land use rights and other property rights.
Chapter VIII
CIVIL TRANSACTIONS
Article 116. Civil transactions
A civil transaction is a contract or unilateral legal act that gives rise to, changes or terminates civil rights and obligations.
Article 117. Validity conditions of civil transactions
1. A civil transaction takes effect when the following conditions are fully satisfied:
a) The subject has civil legal capacity, civil act capacity in accordance with the established civil transaction;
b) Entities participating in civil transactions completely voluntarily;
c) The purpose and content of the civil transaction do not violate the prohibition of the law and do not violate social ethics.
2. The form of a civil transaction is the effective condition of a civil transaction, in case it is provided for by law.
Article 118. Purpose of civil transactions
The purpose of a civil transaction is the benefit that the subject wishes to achieve when establishing that transaction.
Article 119. Forms of civil transactions
1. Civil transactions are expressed verbally, in writing or by specific acts.
Civil transactions through electronic means in the form of data messages in accordance with the law on electronic transactions are considered written transactions.
2. Where the law stipulates that civil transactions must be expressed in writing notarized, authenticated or registered, such provisions must be complied with.
Article 120. Conditional civil transactions
1. Where the parties agree on conditions for arising or canceling a civil transaction, when such conditions occur, the civil transaction arises or is cancelled.
2. Where a condition giving rise to or canceling a civil transaction cannot occur due to a party's direct or indirect intentional act of obstruction, such condition shall be deemed to have occurred; where there is a direct or indirect influence of a party to intentionally promote the occurrence of a condition, such condition shall be deemed not to have occurred.
Article 121. Interpretation of civil transactions
1. For a civil transaction with unclear or confusing contents, understood in many different meanings and not specified in Clause 2 of this Article, the interpretation of such civil transaction shall be performed in the following order: :
a) According to the true will of the parties when establishing the transaction;
b) In a sense suitable for the purpose of the transaction;
c) According to the custom where the transaction is established.
2. The interpretation of the contract shall comply with the provisions of Article 404 of this Code; the interpretation of the contents of the will shall comply with the provisions of Article 648 of this Code.
Article 122. Invalid civil transactions
A civil transaction without one of the conditions specified in Article 117 of this Code shall be invalid, unless otherwise provided for by this Code.
Article 123. Civil transactions are invalid due to violation of the prohibition of the law and against social ethics
Civil transactions with purposes and contents in violation of the prohibitions of the law or against social ethics shall be void.
The prohibition of the law is the provisions of the law that do not allow the subject to perform certain acts.
Social ethics are common standards of behavior in social life, which are recognized and respected by the community.
Article 124. Invalid civil transactions due to forgery
1. When the parties artificially establish a civil transaction in order to conceal another civil transaction, the forged civil transaction shall be invalidated, while the concealed civil transaction shall remain valid, except for the following cases: such transaction is also invalid under the provisions of this Code or other relevant laws.
2. In case a fake civil transaction is established in order to evade obligations towards a third party, such civil transaction shall be invalid.
Article 125. Invalid civil transactions established by minors, persons who have lost their civil act capacity, persons with difficulties in cognition and behavior control, or persons with limited civil act capacity, perform
1. When a civil transaction is established and performed by a minor, a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity, a person with difficulties in perception and behavior control, or a person with restricted civil act capacity. then, at the request of that person's representative, the Court shall declare such transaction invalid if, as prescribed by law, such transaction must be established, performed or agreed by their representative, unless specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Civil transactions of the person specified in Clause 1 of this Article shall not be invalidated in the following cases:
a) Civil transactions of persons under six years of age or persons who have lost their civil act capacity in order to meet such person's essential daily needs;
b) Civil transactions only give rise to rights or are only exempt from obligations for minors, persons who have lost their civil act capacity, people with difficulties in cognition or behavior control, persons with limited capacity for civil acts. force civil acts against people who have established and performed transactions with them;
c) A civil transaction is recognized by the transaction maker after becoming an adult or after having his/her civil act capacity restored.
Article 126. Invalid civil transactions due to confusion
1. In case a civil transaction has been entered into by mistake, causing one or both parties to fail to achieve the purpose of the transaction, the mistaken party has the right to request the Court to declare the civil transaction. invalid, except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. A civil transaction established with a misunderstanding is not invalid in case the purpose of establishing the civil transaction of the parties has been achieved or the parties can immediately remedy the confusion, making the purpose of the civil transaction established. the establishment of civil transactions is still achieved.
Article 127. Invalidation of civil transactions due to deception, intimidation or coercion
When a party to a civil transaction is deceived or threatened or coerced, it has the right to request the court to declare the civil transaction invalid.
Deception in a civil transaction is an intentional act of one party or a third party in order to mislead the other party about the subject, nature of the object or the content of the civil transaction. translate that.
Intimidation or coercion in a civil transaction is an intentional act by a party or a third person to force the other party to perform a civil transaction in order to avoid damage to life, health, honor and reputation. , dignity, property, or that of his or her loved ones.
Article 128. Civil transactions are invalid because the originator is not aware of and controls his/her acts
A person who has civil act capacity but has established a transaction at the right time and is not aware of and controls his/her acts may request a court to declare such civil transaction invalid.
Article 129. Invalid civil transactions due to failure to comply with regulations on form
A civil transaction that violates regulations on formal validity conditions shall be invalid, except for the following cases:
1. A civil transaction that has been established in accordance with regulations must be in writing but the document is not in accordance with the provisions of law and one party or parties has performed at least two-thirds of the obligations in the transaction. one party or parties, the Court shall issue a decision to recognize the validity of that transaction.
2. A civil transaction that has been established in writing but violates the compulsory regulations on notarization and authentication where one party or the parties has performed at least two-thirds of the obligations in the transaction shall, at the request of the one party or parties, the Court shall issue a decision to recognize the validity of that transaction. In this case, the parties are not required to perform the notarization or authentication.
Article 130. Partially invalidated civil transactions
A civil transaction is partially invalidated when a part of the content of a civil transaction is invalidated but does not affect the validity of the remaining part of the transaction.
Article 131. Legal consequences of invalid civil transactions
1. An invalid civil transaction does not give rise to, change or terminate the civil rights and obligations of the parties from the time the transaction is established.
2. When a civil transaction is invalidated, the parties shall restore the original state and return to each other what they have received.
In case it is not possible to return in kind, the money value will be refunded.
3. The righteous party in the collection of yields and profits is not required to return such yields and profits.
4. The party at fault causing damage must compensate.
5. The settlement of consequences of invalid civil transactions related to moral rights shall be prescribed by this Code and other relevant laws.
Article 132. Statute of limitations for requesting the Court to declare a civil transaction invalid
1. The statute of limitations for requesting a court to declare a civil transaction invalid specified in Articles 125, 126, 127, 128 and 129 of this Code is 2 years from the date of:
a) The representative of a minor, a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity, a person with difficulties in cognition or behavior control, or a person with restricted civil act capacity knows or must know the representative; representatives to establish and perform transactions by themselves;
b) The person who is mistaken or deceived knows or ought to know that the transaction was established by mistake or deception;
c) Persons committing acts of threatening or coercive termination of acts of intimidation or coercion;
d) Persons who are not aware of and control their behavior establish transactions;
dd) A civil transaction is established in case the civil transaction does not comply with the regulations on form.
2. Upon the expiration of the statute of limitations specified in Clause 1 of this Article, if there is no request to declare a civil transaction invalid, the civil transaction will take effect.
3. For civil transactions specified in Articles 123 and 124 of this Code, the statute of limitations for requesting the Court to declare the civil transaction invalid is not limited.
Article 133. Protection of interests of bona fide third parties when civil transactions are invalidated
1. In case a civil transaction is invalid but the object of the transaction is a non-registered property that has been transferred to a bona fide third party, the transaction established and performed with the third party will still be valid. , except for the case specified in Article 167 of this Code.
2. In case a civil transaction is invalid but the property has been registered at a competent state agency, then it is transferred by another civil transaction to a bona fide third party and this person, based on If such registration is made and transactions are established and performed, such transactions will not be invalidated.
In case the property subject to registration has not yet been registered at a competent state agency, the civil transaction with the third party will be invalidated, unless the third party in good faith receives this property through auction. price at a competent organization or dealing with a person who, according to a judgment or decision of a competent state agency, is the owner of the property but then this subject is not the owner of the property because of the judgment or decision. , the decision is canceled or corrected.
3. The owner has no right to reclaim the property from a bona fide third party, if the civil transaction with this person is not invalidated as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article but has the right to initiate a lawsuit or request the owner to error resulting in a transaction established with a third party to reimburse reasonable costs and compensate for damages.
Chapter IX
REPRESENT
Article 134. Representative
1. Representation means the establishment and performance by an individual or legal entity (hereinafter referred to as the representative) in the name and for the benefit of another individual or legal entity (hereinafter referred to as the represented person) civil transactions.
2. Individuals and legal entities may establish and perform civil transactions through their representatives. Individuals may not allow others to represent them if the law requires them to establish and perform such transactions by themselves.
3. If so provided for by law, the representative must have civil legal capacity and civil act capacity suitable to civil transactions established and performed.
Article 135. Grounds for establishment of representation rights
The right of representation is established by authorization between the principal and the representative (hereinafter referred to as the authorized representative); according to a decision of a competent state agency, according to the charter of a legal person or according to the provisions of law (hereinafter referred to as the legal representative).
Article 136. Legal representation of individuals
1. Parents, towards their minor children.
2. Guardian for the ward. The guardian of a person with cognitive or behavioral difficulties is the legal representative if appointed by the Court.
3. The person appointed by the Court in case the representative cannot be identified as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
4. Persons appointed by the Court for persons with restricted civil act capacity.
Article 137. Legal representation of legal persons
1. The legal representative of a legal person includes:
a) The person appointed by the legal entity according to the charter;
b) Persons authorized to represent as prescribed by law;
c) Persons appointed by the Court during the court proceedings.
2. A juridical person may have many legal representatives and each representative has the right to represent the juridical person as prescribed in Articles 140 and 141 of this Code.
Article 138. Authorized representation
1. Individuals and legal entities may authorize other individuals or legal entities to establish and perform civil transactions.
2. Members of households, cooperative groups, and other organizations without legal status may agree to appoint another individual or legal entity to represent by authorization to establish and perform civil transactions related to common property of members of households, cooperative groups and other organizations without legal status.
3. Persons between full fifteen years of age and under eighteen years of age may be authorized representatives, except for cases where civil transactions are required by law to be established and performed by persons aged full eighteen years or older. .
Article 139. Legal consequences of acts of representation
1. Civil transactions established and performed by the representative with a third party in accordance with the scope of representation give rise to rights and obligations towards the represented person.
2. The representative has the right to establish and perform necessary acts to achieve the purpose of the representation.
3. Where the representative knows or ought to know that the establishment of the act of representation is due to confusion, deception, threat or coercion but still establishes and performs the act, it does not give rise to rights, obligations towards the principal, unless the principal knew or ought to have known about it without objecting.
Article 140. Term of representation
1. The term of representation shall be determined according to a written authorization, a decision of a competent authority, a charter of a legal entity, or a provision of law.
2. If the time limit for representation cannot be determined as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the time limit for representation shall be determined as follows:
a) If the right of representation is determined according to a specific civil transaction, the time limit for representation shall be counted to the time of termination of such civil transaction;
b) If the right of representation is not determined with a specific civil transaction, the time limit for representation is 01 year from the time the right of representation arises.
3. An authorized representative shall terminate in the following cases:
a) As agreed;
b) The authorization period has expired;
c) The authorized work has been completed;
d) The principal or the representative unilaterally terminates the authorization;
dd) The person being represented, the representative being an individual dies; the represented person, the representative being a legal entity ceases to exist;
e) The representative no longer fully meets the conditions specified in Clause 3, Article 134 of this Code;
g) Other grounds make the representation impossible.
4. The legal representation shall terminate in the following cases:
a) The represented person is an individual who has reached adulthood or has his/her civil act capacity restored;
b) The person represented as an individual dies;
c) The person represented as a legal entity ceases to exist;
d) Other grounds as prescribed by this Code or other relevant laws.
Article 141. Scope of representation
1. A representative may only establish and perform civil transactions within the scope of representation on the following grounds:
a) A decision of a competent authority;
b) The charter of the legal person;
c) Contents of authorization;
d) Other provisions of law.
2. In case the scope of representation cannot be determined as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the legal representative has the right to establish and perform all civil transactions for the benefit of the represented person. unless otherwise provided by law.
3. An individual or juridical person may represent many different individuals or legal entities, but may not act on behalf of the represented person to establish and perform civil transactions with himself or with a third party that he/she is also the representative of that person, unless otherwise provided for by law.
4. The representative must notify the transaction party about the scope of his/her representation.
Article 142. Consequences of civil transactions established and performed by an unauthorized person
1. A civil transaction established and performed by an unauthorized person shall not give rise to rights and obligations towards the represented person, except in one of the following cases:
a) The representative has recognized the transaction;
b) The agent knows without objection within a reasonable time;
c) The represented person is at fault resulting in the fact that the person who transacted does not know or cannot know that the person who has entered into and performed civil transactions with him or her does not have the right to represent.
2. In case a civil transaction established and performed by a person without the right to represent does not give rise to rights and obligations towards the represented person, the person without the right to represent must still perform obligations towards the principal. has transacted with him, except where the person who transacted knew or should have known about not having the right to represent but still transacted.
3. The person who has transacted with the person without the right of representation has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance or cancel the established civil transaction and demand compensation for damage, unless such person knows or must know about the civil transaction. does not have the right to represent but still conducts transactions or in the case specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article.
4. In case the person who has no right to represent and the person who has done the transaction intentionally establishes and performs a civil transaction, causing damage to the represented person, he/she must be jointly responsible for compensating for the damage.
Article 143. Consequences of civil transactions established or performed by the representative beyond the scope of representation
1. Civil transactions established and performed by the representative beyond the scope of representation shall not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal with respect to the part of the transaction performed beyond the scope of representation, except one of the following cases:
a) The representative agrees;
b) The agent knows without objection within a reasonable time;
c) The principal is at fault, leading to the fact that the person who transacted did not know or could not know that the person who entered into and performed civil transactions with him or her was beyond the scope of representation.
2. In case a civil transaction established or performed by a representative exceeds the scope of representation, it does not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal with respect to the part of the transaction established or performed beyond the scope of the representation. In the scope of representation, the representative must perform obligations towards the person who transacted with him for the part of the transaction that is beyond the scope of representation, unless the person who transacted knew or should have known about the transaction beyond the scope of representation. and still trade.
3. The person who transacted with the representative has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance or cancel the civil transaction for the part beyond the scope of representation or the entire civil transaction and demand compensation for damage, except in case such person knows or ought to know about beyond the scope of representation but still transacts or the case specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article.
4. In case the representative and the person dealing with the representative intentionally establish and perform civil transactions beyond the scope of representation, causing damage to the representative, they must be jointly responsible for compensation. damages.
Chapter X
TERMS AND TERMS
Section 1. DURATION
Article 144. Time limit
1. Term is a defined period of time from one time to another.
2. Duration can be defined in minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years or by a probable event.
Article 145. Application of time limit calculation
1. The method of calculating the time limit shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Code, unless otherwise agreed upon or provided for by law.
2. The time limit is calculated according to the solar calendar, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 146. Regulations on time limits and time limit calculation
1. Where the parties agree on a time limit of one year, half a year, one month, half a month, one week, one day, one hour, one minute, but the time period is not consecutive, such time limit shall be extended. calculated as follows:
a) A year is three hundred and sixty-five days;
b) Half a year is six months;
c) One month is thirty days;
d) Half a month is fifteen days;
dd) One week is seven days;
e) A day is twenty-four hours;
g) One hour is sixty minutes;
h) One minute is sixty seconds.
2. Where the parties agree on the beginning of the month, the middle of the month, or the end of the month, such time is specified as follows:
a) The beginning of the month is the first day of the month;
b) The middle of the month is the fifteenth day of the month;
c) The end of the month is the last day of the month.
3. Where the parties agree on the beginning of the year, the middle of the year, the end of the year, that time is specified as follows:
a) The beginning of the year is the first day of January;
b) Mid-year is the last day of June;
c) Year-end is the last day of December.
Article 147. Time of commencement of time limit
1. When the time limit is determined in minutes or hours, the time limit starts from the specified time.
2. When the time limit is determined in days, weeks, months and years, the first day of the time limit shall not be counted but counted from the next day adjacent to the determined date.
3. When the time limit begins with an event, the date of occurrence of the event shall not be counted from the next day immediately following the date of occurrence of that event.
Article 148. Expiration of time limit
1. When the time limit is in days, the time limit ends at the end of the last day of the time limit.
2. When the time limit is in weeks, the time limit ends at the end of the corresponding day of the last week of the time limit.
3. When the time limit is in months, the time limit ends at the end of the corresponding day of the last month of the time limit; if the month ending the period does not have a corresponding date, the time limit ends on the last day of that month.
4. When the time limit is in years, the time limit ends at the end of the corresponding day and month of the last year of the time limit.
5. When the last day of the time limit is a weekend or public holiday, the time limit ends at the end of the working day following that holiday.
6. The end of the last day of the time limit shall be at twenty-four hours of that day.
Section 2. TIMELINES
Article 149. Statute of limitations
1. Statute of limitations is a time limit prescribed by law, upon the end of which, legal consequences arise for the subject under the conditions prescribed by law.
The statute of limitations shall be applied in accordance with this Code and other relevant laws.
2. The court shall only apply the statute of limitations upon a request for the application of the statute of limitations by a party or parties, provided that this request must be made before the first-instance Court issues a judgment or decision on settlement. case.
Persons benefiting from the application of the statute of limitations have the right to refuse the application of the statute of limitations, unless such refusal is for the purpose of evading the performance of an obligation.
Article 150. Types of statute of limitations
1. The statute of limitations for enjoying civil rights is the time limit upon which the subject is entitled to civil rights upon the end of which.
2. The statute of limitations for civil obligation exemption is a time-limit within which, upon the end of which, the civil obligor is exempt from performing the obligation.
3. The statute of limitations for initiating a lawsuit is the time limit during which the subject is entitled to initiate a lawsuit to request the court to settle the civil case to protect the infringed lawful rights and interests; if that time limit expires, the right to sue is lost.
4. The statute of limitations for requesting the settlement of a civil matter is the time-limit within which the subject is entitled to request the Court to settle the civil matter in order to protect the lawful rights and interests of individuals, legal entities, national and people's interests. ethnicity, public interest; if such time limit expires, the right to claim is lost.
Article 151. Method of calculating the statute of limitations
The statute of limitations is calculated from the beginning of the first day of the statute of limitations and ends at the end of the last day of the statute of limitations.
Article 152. Effect of statute of limitations for enjoyment of civil rights and immunity from civil obligations
Where the law provides for subjects to enjoy civil rights or to be exempt from civil obligations according to the statute of limitations, only after that statute of limitations expires, will the enjoyment of civil rights or the exemption from civil obligations be granted. effect.
Article 153. Continuity of statute of limitations for enjoyment of civil rights and immunity from civil obligations
1. The statute of limitations for enjoyment of civil rights and immunity from civil obligations is continuous from the beginning to the end; if there is an interrupting event, the statute of limitations must be recalculated from the beginning, after the interrupting event ends.
2. The statute of limitations for enjoyment of civil rights or immunity from civil obligations is interrupted when one of the following events occurs:
a) There is a settlement by a legally effective decision of a competent state agency with respect to civil rights and obligations for which the statute of limitations is being applied;
b) Civil rights and obligations under the statute of limitations are disputed by persons with related rights and obligations and have been resolved by a legally effective judgment or decision of the Court.
3. The statute of limitations is also counted continuously in case the enjoyment of civil rights or immunity from civil obligations is lawfully transferred to another person.
Article 154. Beginning of statute of limitations for initiating civil lawsuits, statute of limitations for requesting the resolution of civil matters
1. The statute of limitations for initiating a civil lawsuit is counted from the date the person with the right to claim knows or should know that his/her lawful rights and interests have been infringed, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. The statute of limitations for requesting settlement of a civil matter shall be counted from the date of arising of the right to request, unless otherwise provided for by law.
Article 155. No statute of limitations for initiating lawsuits
The statute of limitations does not apply in the following cases:
1. Request for protection of personal rights not attached to property.
2. Request for protection of property rights, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
3. Disputes over land use rights in accordance with the Land Law.
4. Other cases prescribed by law.
Article 156. Time is not included in the statute of limitations for initiating a civil lawsuit or for requesting the resolution of a civil matter
Time not included in the statute of limitations for initiating a civil case, the statute of limitations for requesting the resolution of a civil matter is the period of time when one of the following events occurs:
1. Force majeure events or objective obstacles make it impossible for the subject of the right to initiate a lawsuit or claim within the statute of limitations.
A force majeure event is an event that occurs objectively, which cannot be foreseen and cannot be remedied even though all necessary and permissible measures have been applied.
Objective obstacles are obstacles caused by objective circumstances that make it impossible for persons with civil rights and obligations to know that their lawful rights and interests have been infringed or unable to exercise their rights and obligations. its civil service;
2. There is no representative in case the person with the right to initiate a lawsuit or the person with the right to claim is a minor, has lost his/her civil act capacity, has difficulties in cognition or behavior control or is restricted. civil act capacity;
3. Minors, people who have lost their civil act capacity, people with difficulties in cognition and behavior control, and people with limited civil act capacity who have not yet been replaced by another representative in case The following:
a) The representative dies if he is an individual, ceases to exist if he is a legal entity; b) The representative cannot continue to represent for a good reason.
Article 157. Restarting the statute of limitations for initiating a civil lawsuit
1. The statute of limitations for initiating a civil lawsuit begins again in the following cases:
a) The obligor has admitted part or all of its obligations towards the petitioner;
b) The obligor admits or partially fulfills its obligations towards the petitioner;
c) The parties have reconciled themselves with each other.
2. The statute of limitations for initiating a civil lawsuit begins again from the day following the date of occurrence of the event specified in Clause 1 of this Article.
The second part
PROPERTY AND OTHER RIGHTS TO PROPERTY
Chapter XI
GENERAL RULES
Section 1. PRINCIPLES FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS AND OTHER RIGHTS TO PROPERTY
Article 158. Ownership rights
Property rights include the right to possess, use and dispose of the property of the owner in accordance with the law.
Article 159. Other property rights
1. Other property-related rights are the rights of the subject who directly holds and controls the property under the ownership of another subject.
2. Other property rights include:
a) Right to adjoining immovable property;
b) The usufruct right;
c) Surface rights.
Article 160. Principles of establishment and exercise of ownership rights and other rights to property
1. Ownership rights and other property-related rights shall be established and exercised in cases prescribed by this Code or other relevant laws.
Other property-related rights remain effective in case the ownership rights are transferred, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
2. The owner may perform all acts of his own will with respect to the property but must not contravene the provisions of the law, cause damage or affect the national, ethnic or public interests. , the lawful rights and interests of others.
3. Other property rights holders may perform all acts within the scope of their rights specified in this Code and other relevant laws, but must not cause damage or affect the national interests. ethnicity, public interest, and legitimate rights and interests of the property owner or of others.
Article 161. Time of establishing ownership rights and other property-related rights
1. The time of establishing ownership rights and other property-related rights shall comply with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws; if there is no provision in the law, the agreement of the parties shall apply; Unless otherwise provided for by law and the parties do not agree, the time of establishment of ownership rights and other rights to the property is the time when the property is transferred.
The time when the property is transferred is the time when the obligee or their legal representative takes possession of the property.
2. If the property has not yet been transferred but yields and profits arise, the yields and profits shall belong to the party having the transferred property, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 162. Bearing property risks
1. The owner must bear the risk of the property under his/her ownership, unless otherwise agreed or provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
2. The holders of other property rights must bear the risks of the property within the scope of their rights, unless otherwise agreed with the property owner or provided for by this Code or other relevant laws. other.
Section 2. PROTECTION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS, OTHER RIGHTS TO PROPERTY
Article 163. Protection of ownership rights and other property-related rights
1. No one may be unlawfully restricted or deprived of property rights or other rights to property.
2. When it is absolutely necessary for reasons of national defense and security or in the national interest, in a state of emergency, or for natural disaster prevention and control, the State requisitions or requisitions with compensation the property of an organization or individual. at market prices.
Article 164. Measures to protect ownership and other property rights
1. Owners and other property rights holders have the right to protect themselves and prevent any person from infringing on their rights by measures not contrary to the provisions of law.
2. Owners and other property-related rights holders have the right to request courts or other competent state agencies to force the infringing act to return the property or stop the act of obstruction. unlawful exercise of ownership rights, other rights to property and claim for damages.
Article 165. Possession with legal grounds
1. Possession with a legal basis is the possession of property in the following cases:
a) The owner takes possession of the property;
b) The person authorized by the owner to manage the property;
c) The person to whom the right of possession is transferred through civil transactions in accordance with the provisions of law;
d) Persons who discover and keep derelict property, property whose owner cannot be identified, property that has been dropped, forgotten, buried, hidden, buried or sunk in accordance with conditions in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws;
dd) Persons who detect and keep lost livestock, poultry or domestic animals in accordance with the conditions prescribed in this Code and other relevant laws;
e) Other cases prescribed by law.
2. Possession of property inconsistent with the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article is possession without legal grounds.
Article 166. Right to reclaim property
1. Owners and holders of other property-related rights have the right to reclaim property from property possessors, users or beneficiaries of property without a legal basis.
2. The owner has no right to reclaim the property from the possession of the subject having other rights to that property.
Article 167. The right to reclaim movable property without registration of ownership from the rightful possessor
The owner has the right to reclaim the movable property without having to register the ownership rights from the bona fide possessor in the event that the bona fide possessor obtains the movable property through a no-compensation contract with an incompetent person. asset; In case this contract is a contract of compensation, the owner has the right to reclaim the movable property if such movable property is stolen, lost or otherwise possessed against the will of the owner.
Article 168. Right to reclaim movable property subject to registration of ownership or immovable property from a bona fide possessor
Owners entitled to reclaim movable property must register their ownership rights or immovable property from the bona fide possessor, except for the case specified in Clause 2, Article 133 of this Code.
Article 169. Right to request cessation of acts of unlawfully obstructing the exercise of ownership rights and other property-related rights
When exercising ownership rights and other property rights, the subject has the right to request the person who commits an unlawful obstruction to stop such act or has the right to request a court or a competent state agency to do so. force that person to stop the violation.
Article 170. Right to claim compensation
Owners or holders of other property-related rights have the right to demand compensation for damage from persons infringing acts of ownership or other property-related rights.
Section 3. LIMITATIONS OF OWNERSHIP AND OTHER RIGHTS TO PROPERTY
Article 171. Rights and obligations of owners and other holders of property-related rights in case of emergency
1. An urgent situation is a situation of a person who wants to avoid a real danger that directly threatens public interests, his/her own or other people's lawful rights and interests or that of others, but has no choice but to have the act of causing less damage than the damage to be prevented.
2. In an urgent situation, an owner or holders of other property-related rights must not obstruct other people from using their property or prevent others from causing damage to such property in order to prevent or damage such property. reduce the hazard or greater damage is likely to occur.
3. Causing damage in an urgent situation is not an act of infringing upon ownership or other property rights. Owners and other rights holders with respect to damaged property in an urgent situation shall be entitled to compensation for damage according to the provisions of Article 595 of this Code.
Article 172. Obligations to protect the environment
When exercising ownership or other rights to property, the subject must comply with the provisions of the law on environmental protection; if they pollute the environment, they must stop the polluting acts, take measures to remedy the consequences and pay compensation for the damage.
Article 173. Obligation to respect and ensure social order and safety
When exercising ownership rights and other property rights, the subject must respect and ensure social order and safety, must not abuse rights to cause social disorder and safety, or cause damage to national interests, ethnic groups, public interests, legitimate rights and interests of others.
Article 174. Obligation to respect construction rules
When constructing works, owners and other property rights holders must comply with the law on construction, ensure safety, and must not exceed the height and distance prescribed by the law on construction. determined and must not infringe upon the lawful rights and interests of the owner and other rights holders to the adjacent and surrounding immovable property.
Article 175. Boundaries between real estates
1. The boundary between adjacent real estates shall be determined by agreement or by decision of a competent state agency.
Boundaries may also be determined by custom or by boundaries that have existed for 30 years or more without dispute.
Do not encroach on, occupy or change the boundary markers, even if the boundaries are canals, ditches, trenches, trenches or fields. All subjects have the obligation to respect and maintain common boundaries.
2. Land users may use space and the ground vertically from the boundary of the land plot in accordance with the provisions of law and must not affect the use of other people's land.
Land users are only allowed to plant trees and do other things within the land area under their use rights and according to defined boundaries; if the tree's roots or branches exceed the boundary, they must trim the roots, cut or prune the excess, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 176. Boundaries separating real estates
1. Real estate owners may only erect landmarks, fences, plant trees, and build partitions on the land under their use rights.
2. Owners of adjacent real estate may agree with each other on erecting landmarks, fences, planting trees, building partitions on the boundary to serve as boundary markers between the properties; These landmarks are the common property of those subjects.
In case the boundary marker is created by only one party on the boundary and is agreed by the owner of the adjoining real estate, the boundary marker is jointly owned and the construction costs are borne by the creator, except otherwise agreed upon; if the owner of the adjoining immovable property does not agree with a valid reason, the owner who has erected landmarks, fences, planted trees or built partitions must remove them.
3. For a boundary marker being a wall of a common house, the owner of the adjoining immovable property may not cut windows, air holes or perforate the wall to place the construction structure, unless otherwise approved by the owner of the adjoining property. Agree.
In case the house is built separately but the walls are adjacent to each other, the owner can only punch the wall and place the construction structure to the limit separating his or her walls.
For trees as common landmarks, all parties have the obligation to protect; the yield from the tree shall be divided equally, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 177. Safety assurance in case trees and works are at risk of causing damage
1. In case a tree or construction work is in danger of collapsing onto adjacent and surrounding real estate, the property owner shall immediately take remedial measures, cut down the tree, repair or dismantle the work. such construction at the request of the owner of adjacent and surrounding real estate or at the request of a competent state agency; if they do not voluntarily do so, the owner of adjacent and surrounding real estate has the right to request a competent state agency to cut down trees or demolish them. Expenses for tree cutting and demolition shall be borne by the owners of the trees and construction works.
2. When digging a well, digging a pond or constructing underground works, the owner of the works must dig and build a distance away from the boundary markers as prescribed by the law on construction.
When constructing sanitary works, hazardous substance storage facilities and other works whose use is likely to cause environmental pollution, the owner of such property must build them at a distance from the landmarks and at a suitable location. management, must ensure hygiene, safety and not affect other real estate owners.
3. In case of causing damage to owners of adjacent and surrounding real estate as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the owners of trees and works must compensate.
Article 178. Opening the door to look at adjacent real estate
1. The house owner may only open doors and windows to the next house, the house opposite and the common road according to the provisions of the law on construction.
2. The underside of the roof over the door and the underside of the window roof facing the common road must be at least 2.5 meters above the ground.
Chapter XII
POSSESSION
Article 179. Concept of possession
1. Possession means the subject holding and controlling property directly or indirectly like the holder having the right to the property.
2. Possession includes possession of the owner and possession of a person who is not the owner.
The possession of a person other than the owner cannot be a basis for establishing ownership, except for the cases specified in Articles 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233 and 236 of this Code.
Article 180. Possession in good faith
In good faith possession is possession in which the possessor has grounds to believe that he or she has a right to the property being possessed.
Article 181. Unrighteous possession
Unscrupulous possession is possession that the possessor knows or should know that he has no right to the property being possessed.
Article 182. Continuous possession
1. Continuous possession means possession that is carried out over a period of time without a dispute over the right to that property or with a dispute but not yet resolved by a legally effective judgment or decision. the law of a Court or other competent state agency, even when the property is handed over to another person for possession.
2. Intermittent possession shall not be considered as a basis for conjecture about the status and rights of the possessor specified in Article 184 of this Code.
Article 183. Public possession
1. Public possession means possession made in a transparent manner, without concealment; The property currently in possession shall be used according to its functions and uses and shall be preserved and preserved by the possessor as if it were his/her own property.
2. Non-public possession shall not be considered as a basis for conjecture about the status and rights of the possessor specified in Article 184 of this Code.
Article 184. Speculation on the status and rights of the possessor
1. The possessor is presumed to be in good faith; Anyone who thinks that the possessor is not sincere must prove it.
2. In case there is a dispute over property rights, the possessor is presumed to be the person having that right. The person having a dispute with the possessor must prove that the possessor has no rights.
3. The rightful, continuous and public possessor may apply the statute of limitations for enjoying the rights and enjoy the yields and profits brought by the property in accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws.
Article 185. Protection of possession
In case the possession is infringed upon by another person, the possessor has the right to request the infringer to stop the act, restore it to its original state, return the property and pay compensation for damage, or request the Court. court or other competent state agency to force the person to stop the act, restore the original condition, return the property and pay compensation for damage.
Chapter XIII
OWNERSHIP
Section 1. PROPERTY RIGHTS CONTENT
Subsection 1. OWNERSHIP
Article 186. Owner's right of possession
Owners may perform all acts according to their will to hold and control their property, but must not be contrary to law or social ethics.
Article 187. Possession rights of the person authorized by the owner to manage the property
1. The person authorized by the owner to manage the property shall take possession of such property within the scope, manner and time limit determined by the owner.
2. The person authorized by the owner to manage the property cannot become the owner of the assigned property according to the provisions of Article 236 of this Code.
Article 188. Right of possession of the person to whom the property is assigned through civil transactions
1. When the property owner hands over the property to another person through a civil transaction but the contents do not include the transfer of ownership rights, the person assigned the property must take possession of that property in accordance with the purpose, the content of the transaction.
2. The person to whom the property is assigned has the right to use the assigned property, and may transfer the right to possess and use such property to another person with the consent of the owner.
3. The person to whom the property is assigned cannot become the owner of the assigned property according to the provisions of Article 236 of this Code.
Subsection 2. USE RIGHTS
Article 189. Right to use
The right to use means the right to exploit the utility, enjoy the benefits and profits from the property.
The right to use may be transferred to another person by agreement or by law.
Article 190. Owner's right to use
The owner may use the property according to his/her will but must not cause damage or affect the national interests, ethnic groups, public interests, lawful rights and interests of others.
Article 191. Use rights of non-owners
A person who is not the owner may use the property according to an agreement with the owner or as prescribed by law.
Subsection 3. RIGHT TO DECIDE
Article 192. Right of disposition
The right of disposition is the right to transfer ownership of property, to renounce ownership, to consume, or to destroy property.
Article 193. Conditions for exercising the right to dispose
The disposition of property must be performed by a person with civil act capacity and not contrary to law.
Where the law prescribes the order and procedures for property disposition, such order and procedures must be followed.
Article 194. Right of disposition of the owner
The owner has the right to sell, exchange, donate, lend, inherit, give up ownership, consume, destroy or perform other forms of disposal in accordance with the provisions of law on the property. asset.
Article 195. Disposal rights of non-owners
A person who is not a property owner has the right to dispose of the property only as authorized by the owner or as provided for by law.
Article 196. Limitation of the right to dispose
1. The right of disposition is limited only in cases prescribed by law.
2. When the property to be sold is a property belonging to a historical-cultural relic in accordance with the Law on Cultural Heritage, the State has the right of priority to purchase.
Where an individual or legal entity has the right of priority to purchase certain assets as prescribed by law, when selling the property, the owner must reserve the right of priority to purchase for such subjects.
Section 2. FORMS OF OWNERSHIP
Subsection 1. PEOPLE'S OWNERSHIP
Article 197. Property under the ownership of the entire people
Land, water resources, mineral resources, resources in sea and airspace, other natural resources and properties invested and managed by the State are public property owned by the entire people and managed by the State. representative of the owner and unified management.
Article 198. Exercising the owner's rights to property owned by the entire people
1. The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is the representative and exerciser of the owner's rights to property owned by the entire people.
2. The Government uniformly manages and ensures the proper, efficient and economical use of property owned by the entire people.
Article 199. Possession, use and disposition of property owned by the entire people
The possession, use and disposition of property under the ownership of the entire people shall be carried out within the scope and in the order prescribed by law.
Article 200. Exercising the entire people's ownership rights to assets invested in enterprises
1. When property owned by the entire people is invested in an enterprise, the State shall exercise the owner's rights to such property in accordance with the law on enterprises, management and use of state capital invested. investment in production and business at the enterprise and other relevant provisions of law.
2. Enterprises shall manage and use capital, land, natural resources and other assets invested by the State in accordance with relevant laws.
Article 201. Exercising the entire people's ownership of property assigned to state agencies or units of the people's armed forces
1. When property belonging to the entire people is assigned to a state agency or unit of the people's armed forces, the State exercises the right to inspect and supervise the management and use of such property.
2. State agencies and units of the people's armed forces shall manage and use the property for the right purposes and according to the provisions of law with respect to the property assigned by the State.
Article 202. Exercising the entire people's ownership rights to property assigned to political organizations, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations and social organizations - job
1. When property under the ownership of the entire people is assigned to a political organization, socio-political organization, socio-political-professional organization, social organization, or socio-professional organization, the State State exercises the right to inspect and supervise the management and use of such property.
2. Political organizations, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations and socio-professional organizations shall manage and use state-owned assets. assigned for the right purposes, within the scope, in the manner and in the order prescribed by law, in accordance with the functions and tasks specified in the charter.
Article 203. Rights of individuals and legal entities to the use and exploitation of property owned by the entire people
Individuals and legal entities may use land, exploit aquatic resources, natural resources and other properties owned by the entire people for the right purposes, effectively, and fulfill their obligations to the State according to law. provisions of law.
Article 204. Property owned by the entire people that has not been assigned to individuals or legal entities for management
For properties under the ownership of the entire people but not yet assigned to individuals or legal entities for management, the Government shall organize the protection, investigation, survey, and planning to put them into operation.
Subsection 2. PRIVATE PROPERTY
Article 205. Private ownership and privately owned property
1. Private property is the property of an individual or a legal entity.
2. Legal property under private ownership is not limited in quantity and value.
Article 206. Possession, use and disposition of privately owned property
1. The owner has the right to possess, use and dispose of privately owned property to serve the needs of daily life, consumption, production, business and other purposes not contrary to law.
2. The possession, use and disposition of privately owned property must not cause damage or affect the national interests, ethnic groups, public interests, and lawful rights and interests of others.
Subsection 3. GENERAL PROPERTY
Article 207. Common ownership and types of common ownership
1. Common ownership means ownership by many subjects over property.
2. Common ownership includes share ownership and consolidated common ownership.
Article 208. Establishment of common ownership rights
Common ownership rights are established by agreement, by law or by custom.
Article 209. Joint ownership under section
1. Shared ownership by part is common ownership in which the ownership share of each owner is determined for the common property.
2. Each share owner has the rights and obligations to the property under common ownership in proportion to his or her share of ownership rights, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 210. Consolidated common ownership
1. Consolidated common ownership is common ownership in which the ownership portion of each common owner is not determined for the common property.
Consolidated common property includes divisible consolidated joint ownership and undivided consolidated joint ownership.
2. Consolidating common owners have equal rights and obligations to assets under common ownership.
Article 211. Community ownership
1. Community common ownership means the ownership of the family line, hamlet, hamlet, village, hamlet, phum, squirrel, religious community and other residential community with respect to property formed according to custom, property jointly contributed, donated, donated by members of the community or from other sources in accordance with the provisions of law for the purpose of satisfying the legitimate common interests of the community.
2. Community members jointly manage, use and dispose of common property as agreed or customary for the common benefit of the community, but must not violate the prohibition of the law or violate social ethics. .
3. The common property of the community is the undivided undivided common property.
Article 212. Common ownership of family members
1. Property of family members living together includes property contributed and jointly created by members and other properties established as ownership in accordance with this Code and other relevant laws. relate to.
2. The possession, use and disposition of common property of family members shall be done by the method of agreement. In case of disposing of property which is immovable property, registered movable property, property which is the main source of income of the family, the consent of all family members who are adults with legal capacity must be obtained. fully civil, unless otherwise provided for by law.
If there is no agreement, the provisions on common ownership according to the part prescribed in this Code and other relevant laws shall apply, except for the case specified in Article 213 of this Code.
Article 213. Joint ownership of husband and wife
1. Common property of husband and wife is divisible common property.
2. Husband and wife jointly create and develop common property; have equal rights to possess, use and dispose of common property.
3. Husband and wife agree or authorize each other to possess, use and dispose of common property.
4. Common property of husband and wife may be divided by agreement or by decision of the Court.
5. In case the husband and wife choose the property regime as agreed upon in accordance with the law on marriage and family, the common property of the husband and wife shall be applied according to this property regime.
Article 214. Joint ownership in an apartment building
1. The area, equipment and other assets shared in the apartment building as prescribed by the Law on Housing are jointly owned by all owners of the apartments in that house and are not divided. unless otherwise provided by law or otherwise agreed by all owners.
2. Owners of apartments in an apartment building have equal rights and obligations in the management and use of properties specified in Clause 1 of this Article, unless otherwise provided for by law or otherwise agreed.
3. In case the apartment building is destroyed, the rights of the apartment owner shall comply with the provisions of law.
Article 215. Mixed common ownership
1. Mixed common ownership means ownership of assets contributed as capital by owners of different economic sectors for production and business to generate profits.
2. Property formed from the capital contributed by the owners, lawful profits obtained from production and business activities or from other sources in accordance with the provisions of law are property under common ownership. mixture.
3. The possession, use and disposition of property under mixed common ownership must comply with the provisions of Article 209 of this Code and provisions of law related to capital contribution, organization and operation. production, business, management, administration, responsibility for assets and distribution of profits.
Article 216. Management of common property
Joint owners jointly manage common property on the principle of consensus, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
Article 217. Use of common property
1. Each joint owner in part has the right to exploit the utility, to enjoy the yields and profits from the common property in proportion to his/her share of ownership, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law. .
2. Consolidating common owners have equal rights in exploiting the utility, enjoying the yields and profits from the common property, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 218. Disposal of common property
1. Each joint owner in part has the right to dispose of his or her share of ownership.
2. The disposition of the consolidated common property shall be done according to the agreement of the common owners or according to the provisions of law.
3. In case a common owner sells a portion of his/her ownership rights, the other co-owners have the right to pre-emptive purchase.
Within 3 months for common property being immovable property, 01 month for common property being movable, from the date on which other common owners receive notice of the sale and sale conditions without any If a common owner buys it, that owner has the right to sell it to another person. The notice must be in writing and the terms of sale to other common owners must be the same as those of the sale to a non-common owner.
In case of selling a portion of the ownership right with a violation of the right of priority to purchase, within 3 months from the date of detecting the violation of the right of priority to purchase, the joint owner according to the part among the owners The common owner has the right to request the Court to transfer to him/her the rights and obligations of the buyer; The party at fault causing damage must compensate for the damage.
4. Where one of the joint owners of immovable property renounces his share of the ownership rights or when this person dies without an heir, that share of ownership rights shall belong to the State, except in cases where the owner the common ownership of the community is jointly owned by the remaining common owners.
5. Where one of the joint owners of movable property gives up his share of the ownership rights or when this person dies without an heir, that part of the ownership rights shall be jointly owned by the remaining owners. again.
6. Where all owners give up their ownership rights to the common property, the establishment of ownership rights shall comply with the provisions of Article 228 of this Code.
Article 219. Division of property under common ownership
1. In case of divisible common ownership, each common owner has the right to request division of the common property; if the status of common ownership must be maintained for a period of time as agreed upon by the joint owners or as provided for by law, each co-owner has the right to claim the division of the common property only upon the expiration of such period; when the common property cannot be divided in kind, the common owner who requests the division has the right to sell his/her share of the ownership rights, unless otherwise agreed by the common owners.
2. In case someone requests one of the joint owners to perform the payment obligation and that common owner has no separate property or the separate property is not sufficient for payment, the claimant has the right to demand payment. request the division of common property and participate in the division of common property, unless otherwise provided for by law.
If the share of the ownership rights cannot be divided in kind or this division is opposed by the remaining joint owners, the obligee has the right to request the obligor to sell his/her share of the ownership right to fulfill the payment obligation. maths.
Article 220. Termination of joint ownership
Joint ownership terminates in the following cases:
1. Shared common property.
2. One of the joint owners is entitled to the entire common property.
3. The common property no longer exists.
4. Other cases as prescribed by law.
Section 3. ESTABLISHMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS
Subsection 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROPERTY RIGHTS
Article 221. Grounds for establishment of ownership rights
Ownership is established over the property in the following cases:
1. Due to labor, legal production and business activities, and creation of intellectual property rights objects.
2. To be entitled to transfer ownership under an agreement or under a judgment or decision of a court or other competent state agency.
3. Collect profits and profits.
4. Formation of new assets due to merger, mixing or processing.
5. Inherited.
6. Possession under the conditions prescribed by law for derelict property, property whose owner cannot be identified; buried, hidden, buried, sunken property is found; property dropped or forgotten by others; lost livestock, poultry, aquatic animals moving naturally.
7. Possessing and benefiting from property as prescribed in Article 236 of this Code.
8. Other cases prescribed by law.
Article 222. Establishment of ownership rights to property acquired from labor, lawful production and business activities, and creation of objects of intellectual property rights
The employee, who conducts lawful production and business activities, has the right to ownership of property obtained from lawful labor, production and business activities from the time of obtaining such property.
Persons conducting creative activities have ownership rights to assets obtained from creative activities according to the provisions of the Intellectual Property Law.
Article 223. Establishment of ownership under contract
A person who is assigned property through a contract of sale, donation, exchange, loan or other contract of ownership transfer as prescribed by law shall have the right to own such property.
Article 224. Establishment of ownership rights over yields and profits
Owners and users of assets have ownership rights to yields and profits as agreed upon or prescribed by law, from the time of receipt of such yields and profits.
Article 225. Establishment of ownership rights in case of merger
1. Where the assets of many different owners are merged together to form an indivisible object and it is impossible to determine whether the merged property is the main object or an auxiliary object, the newly created object is the property of joint ownership of such owners; if the property to be merged is a main object and an auxiliary object, the newly created object belongs to the owner of the main object, from the time the new object is created, the new property owner must pay the owner of the auxiliary object. part of the value of such auxiliary object, unless otherwise agreed.
2. When a person merges another person's movable property into his/her own movable property, even though he knew or should have known that such property was not his/her own and without the owner's consent If the property is merged, the owner of the merged property has one of the following rights:
a) Request the person merging the property to hand over the new property to him/her and pay the value of his/her property to the merger person;
b) Request the person merging the property to pay the value of his/her part of the property and pay compensation for damage if the new property is not received;
c) Other rights as prescribed by law.
3. When a person merges the movable property of another person into his/her own property, even though he knew or should have known that such property is not his/her own and without the consent of the owner If the merged property owner owns the merged property, the owner of the merged property has one of the following rights:
a) Request the person merging the property to pay the value of his/her part of the property and pay compensation for damage;
b) Other rights as prescribed by law.
4. When a person merges his or her movable property into another's immovable property, the real estate owner has the right to demand that the merger remove the illegally merged property and compensate for damage or retain assets and pay to the merger the value of the merged assets, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 226. Establishment of ownership in case of mixing
1. Where the properties of many different owners are mixed together to form a new indivisible object, the new object shall be the property under common ownership of those owners from the time of mixing.
2. When a person has mixed another person's property with his/her own, even though he knew or ought to know that the property was not his/her own and without the consent of the owner of the mixed property, the owner mixed property ownership has one of the following rights:
a) Request the person who has mixed the property to hand over the new property to him and pay the person who has mixed up the value of his or her property;
b) Request the person who has mixed the property to pay the value of his/her part of the property and compensate for damage if he does not receive the new property.
Article 227. Establishment of ownership rights in case of processing
1. The owner of the raw materials to be processed into a new object is the owner of the newly created object.
2. A person who uses raw materials owned by others for processing but in good faith becomes the owner of the new property but must pay the value of the raw materials and compensate the owner of the material for damage. there.
3. In case the processor is not honest, the owner of the raw materials has the right to request the handover of the new object; if there are multiple owners of materials, these people are joint owners in proportion to the newly created object, corresponding to the value of materials for each person. The owner of the raw material processed in bad faith has the right to demand compensation from the processor for damage.
Article 228. Establishment of ownership rights over derelict property and unidentifiable property
1. A derelict property is a property whose owner has given up ownership of such property.
Persons who have discovered or are managing derelict property as movable property shall have the right to own such property, unless otherwise provided for by law; if the property is real estate, it belongs to the State.
2. The person who discovers the property that cannot be identified as the owner must notify or hand it over to the People's Committee of the commune or the nearest commune-level police station to publicly notify the owner and receive it back. .
The handover must be made in writing, clearly stating the full name and address of the deliverer, recipient, status, quantity and volume of the property to be handed over.
The commune-level People's Committee or the commune-level police station that has received the property must notify the discoverer of the result of identifying the owner.
After 1 year from the date of public announcement, if it is not possible to determine who is the owner of the movable property, the ownership rights to such movable property shall belong to the person who discovered the property.
After 5 years from the date of public announcement, if it is not possible to determine who is the owner of the real estate, such real estate shall belong to the State; the discoverer is entitled to a bonus in accordance with the law.
Article 229. Establishment of ownership rights to found buried, hidden, buried or sunk property
1. Persons who discover buried, hidden, buried or sunk property must notify or immediately return it to the owner; if the owner is not known, it must notify or hand it over to the nearest commune-level People's Committee or police station or other competent state agency as prescribed by law.
2. Property that is buried, hidden, buried or sunk is found without or without identification of the owner, after deducting expenses for search, preservation and ownership of the property. This is defined as follows:
a) Property found to be property belonging to historical-cultural relics according to the provisions of the Law on Cultural Heritage shall belong to the State; the person who finds such property is entitled to a reward in accordance with the law;
b) Property found that is not a property belonging to a historical-cultural relic under the provisions of the Law on Cultural Heritage but has a value less than or equal to ten times the basic salary prescribed by the State shall belong to the State. the finder's property; if the property found has a value greater than ten times the base salary prescribed by the State, the finder is entitled to a value equal to ten times the base salary prescribed by the State and 50% of the value of the excess. ten times the base salary prescribed by the State, the remaining value belongs to the State.
Article 230. Establishment of ownership rights to property dropped or forgotten by others
1. A person who discovers that property has been dropped or forgotten by another person and knows the address of the person who has dropped or forgotten it, must notify or return the property to such person; if the address of the person who has dropped or forgotten it is not known, it must notify or hand it over to the nearest commune-level People's Committee or police station for public announcement to the owner and receive it back.
The commune-level People's Committee or the commune-level police station that has received the property must notify the handover of the result of identifying the owner.
2. After 01 year from the date of public announcement of the property dropped or forgotten by others, if the owner cannot be identified or the owner does not come to receive it, the ownership rights to this property shall be determined. determined as follows:
a) Where a property that is dropped or forgotten has a value of less than or equal to ten times the base salary prescribed by the State, the person who finds it may establish ownership of such property in accordance with regulations of the Ministry of Finance. this law and other provisions of relevant laws; In case the property has a value greater than ten times the base salary prescribed by the State, after deducting maintenance costs, the person who finds it will enjoy a value equal to ten times the base salary prescribed by the State and 50 times the base salary prescribed by the State. % of the value of the portion exceeding ten times the base salary prescribed by the State, the remaining value belongs to the State;
b) In case the property that is dropped or neglected is a property belonging to a historical-cultural relic according to the provisions of the Law on Cultural Heritage, such property belongs to the State; the person who picks up the property is entitled to a bonus in accordance with the law.
Article 231. Establishment of ownership rights over lost livestock
1. The person who catches the lost cattle must keep it and immediately notify the People's Committee of the commune where he/she resides in order to publicly notify the owner and receive it back. After 06 months from the date of public announcement or after 01 year for cattle that are left free according to custom, the ownership rights over the cattle and the number of livestock born during the keeping period shall belong to the person who caught the cattle. cattle.
2. In case the owner is entitled to receive back the lost cattle, he must pay the keeping wages and other expenses to the person who caught the cattle. During the time of keeping the lost livestock, if the livestock gives birth, the person who caught the cattle is entitled to half of the livestock born or 50% of the value of the livestock born and must compensate for any damage, if any. intentional killing of livestock.
Article 232. Establishment of ownership rights over lost poultry
1. In case one person's poultry is lost and another person catches it, the catcher must make a public announcement so that the poultry owner knows and can get it back. After 01 month, from the date of public announcement, if no one comes to receive the poultry, the ownership rights to the poultry and the yield produced by the poultry during the keeping period belongs to the person who caught the poultry.
2. In case the owner is entitled to receive the lost poultry back, he/she must pay the keeping wages and other expenses to the person who catches the poultry. During the time of keeping the lost poultry, the person who catches the poultry is entitled to the profits generated by the poultry and must compensate for the damage if there is a deliberate fault in causing the death of the poultry.
Article 233. Establishment of ownership rights to aquatic animals
When one person's aquatic animals move naturally into another's fields, ponds or lakes, they are owned by the person owning that field, pond or lake. In case an aquatic animal has a distinctive sign so that it can be determined that the animal is not under his/her ownership, the person who owns such field, pond or lake must publicly notify it so that the owner can know and receive it back. After 01 month from the date of public announcement, if no one comes to receive, the ownership of such aquatic animals shall belong to the person who owns the fields, ponds or lakes.
Article 234. Establishment of ownership rights due to inheritance
The heirs may establish ownership of the inherited property according to the provisions of Part Four of this Code.
Article 235. Establishment of ownership rights according to judgments and decisions of courts or other competent state agencies
Ownership rights may be established based on legally effective judgments or decisions of courts or other competent state agencies.
Article 236. Establishment of ownership rights according to the statute of limitations due to possessing or benefiting from property without a legal basis
The possessor or beneficiary of property without a legal basis but in good faith, continuously and openly within 10 years for movable property and 30 years for immovable property shall become the owner of the property. from the time of commencement of possession, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
Subsection 2. TERMINATION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS
Article 237. Grounds for termination of ownership rights
Ownership ends in the following cases:
1. Owner transfers his/her ownership rights to another person.
2. The owner waives his title.
3. Property has been consumed or destroyed.
4. Property is handled to perform the owner's obligations.
5. Property being forcibly purchased.
6. Property confiscated.
7. Property for which ownership rights have been established for other people in accordance with this Code.
8. Other cases prescribed by law.
Article 238. Owner transfers his/her ownership rights to another person
When the owner transfers his/her ownership right to another person through a contract of sale, exchange, gift, loan or other contract of ownership transfer as prescribed by law or through inheritance then the ownership right to the property of that person terminates from the time when the ownership rights of the transferee arise.
Article 239. Renunciation of ownership rights
The owner may terminate his/her own right to his/her property by making a public declaration or performing an act demonstrating his/her relinquishment of the right to possess, use and dispose of such property.
With regard to property whose abandonment may cause harm to social order and safety or environmental pollution, the renunciation of ownership rights must comply with the provisions of law.
Article 240. Property for which ownership has been established for others
Property of unidentifiable owner; buried, hidden, buried, sunken property is found; lost or neglected property; lost livestock and poultry; If an aquatic animal that moves naturally has been established to be owned by another person according to the provisions of Articles from Article 228 to Article 233 of this Code, the ownership rights of the person possessing such property shall terminate.
When the ownership rights of the possessor or beneficiary of the property have been established according to the provisions of Article 236 of this Code or other relevant provisions of law, the ownership rights of the person whose property has been confiscated shall be terminated. possession.
Article 241. Handling of property to perform obligations of the owner
1. Ownership of a property terminates when such property is handled to perform the owner's obligations under a decision of a court or other competent state agency, if not provided for by law. other determination.
2. The handling of property to fulfill the owner's obligations does not apply to property not subject to distraint as prescribed by law.
3. Ownership rights to property handled to perform the owner's obligations shall terminate at the time when the ownership rights of the recipient of such property arise.
4. The handling of land use rights shall comply with the provisions of the land law.
Article 242. Property to be consumed or destroyed
When property is consumed or destroyed, ownership over that property ends.
Article 243. Property forfeited
Where the State expropriates the purchase of property according to the provisions of law, the ownership rights to the property of such owner shall terminate from the time when the decision of the competent state agency takes legal effect.
Article 244. Confiscated property
When an owner's property is confiscated or added to the state fund due to a crime or administrative violation, the ownership right to such property shall terminate from the time of judgment or decision of a court or agency. other competent state has legal effect.
Chapter XIV
OTHER RIGHTS TO PROPERTY
Section 1. RIGHTS TO adjoining immovable property
Article 245. Right to adjoining immovable property
Right to adjoining immovable property means the right to be exercised on one immovable property (referred to as the entitled immovable property) in service of the exploitation of another immovable property owned by another person (referred to as the entitled immovable property). entitled real estate).
Article 246. Grounds for establishing rights to adjoining immovable property
The right to adjoining immovable property is established by natural topography, by law, by agreement or by will.
Article 247. Effect of rights to adjoining immovable property
The right to adjoining immovable property is valid for all individuals and legal entities and is transferred when the immovable property is transferred, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
Article 248. Principles for exercising rights to adjoining immovable property
The exercise of rights to adjoining immovable property as agreed by the parties. If the parties do not reach an agreement, the following principles shall be followed:
1. To ensure the reasonable needs of the exploitation of the entitled real estate in accordance with the use purposes of both the entitled immovable property and the entitled immovable property.
2. Not to abuse the right to the subject property.
3. Not to perform acts that prevent or make it difficult to exercise the right to the entitled immovable property.
Article 249. Change in exercise of rights to adjoining immovable property
In case there is a change in the use and exploitation of the entitled immovable property leading to the change in the exercise of the right to the entitled immovable property, the owner of the entitled immovable property must notify the rightful owner in advance. property owner for a reasonable period of time. The owner of the entitled immovable property must create favorable conditions for the owner of the entitled immovable property in accordance with this change.
Article 250. Obligations of owners in rainwater drainage
Owners of houses and other construction works must install water pipes so that rainwater from their roofs or construction works cannot flow onto the property of the adjacent real estate owner.
Article 251. Obligations of owners in wastewater drainage
Owners of houses and other construction works must build underground drains or drainage ditches to bring wastewater to a prescribed place, so that wastewater does not overflow onto the owner's property adjacent to it, or onto the street. public or public places.
Article 252. Right to water supply and drainage through adjoining immovable property
In case the water supply and drainage is forced through another immovable property due to the natural location of the immovable property, the owner of the immovable property through which water flows must reserve an appropriate water supply and drainage outlet, which must not obstruct the flow of water. impede or block the flow of water.
Users of water supply and drainage passages must minimize damage to property owners through which water flows when installing water pipes; If damage is caused, compensation must be made. In case natural water flows from a high position to a low position, causing damage to the owner of the immovable property through which the water flows, the user of the water supply and drainage route is not required to compensate for the damage.
Article 253. The right to watering and draining water in cultivation
Persons who have the right to use arable land when there is a need for irrigation or drainage, have the right to request the surrounding land users to provide themselves with an appropriate and convenient water route for irrigation and drainage; the requested person is obligated to respond to the request; if users of the water conduit cause damage to surrounding land users, they must compensate.
Article 254. Right of passage
1. Owners whose immovable property is surrounded by the properties of other owners without or with insufficient access to public roads, has the right to request that the owner of the enclosed immovable property for themselves a reasonable path on their land.
Walkway is opened on which adjoining property is deemed most convenient and reasonable, taking into account the specifics of the site, the interests of the enclosed property, and the minimal damage caused. for real estate with access.
The owner of the immovable property entitled to the right of passage must compensate the owner of the immovable property entitled to the right of passage, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The location, length, width, and height limits of the aisles shall be agreed upon by the parties, ensuring convenience for travel and less trouble for the parties; if there is a dispute over the way, they have the right to request a court or other competent state agency to determine.
3. In case the immovable property is divided into several parts for different owners or users, when dividing, the necessary passages must be reserved for the people inside as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article without compensation.
Article 255. Connecting to other real estate power transmission and communication lines
The owner of real estate has the right to reasonably connect electricity and communication lines through the property of other owners, but must ensure the safety and convenience of such owners; If damage is caused, compensation must be made.
Article 256. Termination of rights to adjoining immovable property
The right to adjoining immovable property shall terminate in the following cases:
1. Entitlement immovable and entitled property belong to one person.
2. The use and exploitation of real estate no longer gives rise to the need for enjoyment of rights.
3. As agreed by the parties.
4. Other cases as prescribed by law.
Section 2. BENEFITS
Article 257. Usufruct right
The usufruct right is the right of the subject to exploit the utility and enjoy the yields and interests of the property under the ownership of another subject for a certain period of time.
Article 258. Grounds for establishment of usufruct right
The usufruct right is established by law, by agreement or by will.
Article 259. Effect of usufruct right
The usufruct right is established from the time of receipt of property transfer, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided by relevant laws.
The usufruct right has been established and is valid for all individuals and legal entities, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
Article 260. Term of usufruct right
1. The duration of the usufruct right shall be agreed upon by the parties or prescribed by law, but up to the end of the life of the first usufructer if the usufruct is an individual and until the juridical person ceases to exist, but up to 30 years if the first beneficiary is a legal entity.
2. The usufructuary has the right to lease out the usufruct right within the time limit specified in Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 261. Rights of the beneficiary
1. By themselves or allowing others to exploit, use and collect yields and profits from the subject matter of the usufruct right.
2. To request the property owner to perform the obligation to repair the property as prescribed in Clause 4, Article 263 of this Code; in case of performing an obligation on behalf of the property owner, he/she has the right to request the property owner to reimburse the expenses.
3. Lease usufruct right to the property.
Article 262. Obligations of the beneficiary
1. Receive property according to its current state and register it if so prescribed by law.
2. To exploit property in accordance with the utility and use purpose of the property.
3. Preserve and preserve assets like their own.
4. Periodically maintain and repair assets to ensure normal use; restore the condition of the property and remedy the bad consequences for the property due to the failure to perform well its obligations in accordance with the technical requirements or according to the customary preservation of the property.
5. Return the property to the owner at the end of the useful life.
Article 263. Rights and obligations of property owners
1. Dispose of property but must not change the established usufruct right.
2. To request the Court to disqualify the usufruct right in case the usufructary seriously violates his/her obligations.
3. Not to obstruct or perform other acts that cause difficulties or infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of the beneficiary.
4. Perform the obligation to repair the property to ensure that there is no significant deterioration leading to the property being unusable or losing the entire utility and value of the property.
Article 264. Right to enjoy yields and profits
1. The usufructuary has the right to title to the yields and profits obtained from the property subject to the usufruct right during the time this right is in effect.
2. Where the usufruct right terminates without the maturity date for yield and income collection, then when the yield and income collection maturity is due, the usufructee shall enjoy the value of the yield and/or profit corresponding to the maturity date. period the person is entitled to enjoy.
Article 265. Termination of usufruct right
The usufruct right shall terminate in the following cases:
1. The term of the usufruct right has expired.
2. As agreed by the parties.
3. The usufructuary becomes the owner of the property subject to the usufruct right.
4. The usufructuary waives or fails to exercise the usufruct right within the time limit prescribed by law.
5. Property subject to usufruct right no longer exists.
6. By decision of the Court.
7. Other grounds as prescribed by law.
Article 266. Return of property upon termination of usufruct right
Property subject to usufruct right must be returned to its owner upon termination of usufruct right, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
Section 3. SURFACE RIGHTS
Article 267. Surface rights
Surface right is the right of a subject to the land, water surface, space on the ground, water surface and underground that the right to use that land belongs to another subject.
Article 268. Grounds for establishing surface rights
Surface rights are established by law, by agreement or by will.
Article 269. Effect of surface rights
Surface rights take effect from the time when the holder of land use right transfers the ground, water surface, space on the ground, water surface and underground to the holder of the land use right, unless otherwise agreed. or otherwise provided by relevant law.
The right to surface is valid for all individuals and legal entities, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
Article 270. Term of surface rights
1. The term of the surface right shall be determined according to the provisions of law, agreement or will but shall not exceed the term of the land use right.
2. Where the agreement or will does not specify the term of the surface right, each party has the right to terminate this right at any time but must notify the other party in writing at least 06 months in advance.
Article 271. Contents of surface rights
1. The holders of surface rights have the right to exploit and use the ground, water surface, space on the ground, water surface and underground areas under the land use rights of other people for construction of works, planting, cultivation. but must not contravene the provisions of this Code, the law on land, construction, planning, natural resources, minerals and other relevant laws.
2. Surface rights holders have ownership rights to properties created under Clause 1 of this Article.
3. Where the surface right is partially or fully transferred, the transferee may inherit the surface right according to the conditions and to the extent corresponding to the transferred surface right.
Article 272. Termination of surface rights
Surface rights terminate in the following cases:
1. The term of enjoyment of surface rights has expired.
2. The holder of surface rights and the holder of land use rights are the same.
3. The holders of surface rights waive their rights.
4. Land use rights with surface rights are revoked according to the provisions of the Land Law.
5. As agreed by the parties or as prescribed by law.
Article 273. Disposal of property upon termination of surface rights
1. When the surface right terminates, the surface right holder must return the ground, water surface, space on the ground, water surface and underground to the holder of land use right as agreed upon or prescribed. under the law.
2. The owner of a surface right must dispose of the property under his/her ownership before the termination of the surface right, unless otherwise agreed.
In case the surface right holder does not handle the property before the surface right terminates, the ownership of such property belongs to the land use right holder from the time the surface right terminates, unless the have the right to use the land without receiving such property.
In case the land use right holder does not receive the property but has to handle the property, the surface right holder must pay the cost of handling the property.
The third part
OBLIGATIONS AND CONTRACT
Chapter XV
GENERAL RULES
Section 1. GENERAL BASIS AND OBJECTIVE OF OBLIGATION
Article 274. Obligations
Obligation is an act whereby one or more subjects (hereinafter referred to as the obligor) must transfer things, transfer rights, pay money or valuable papers, perform work or not perform work. certain work for the benefit of one or more other subjects (hereinafter collectively referred to as the obligee).
Article 275. Grounds for arising obligations
Obligations arise from the following grounds:
1. Contract.
2. Unilateral legal action.
3. Perform work without authorization.
4. Possession, use of property or gain of property without a legal basis.
5. Causing damage due to illegal acts.
6. Other grounds prescribed by law.
Article 276. Objects of obligations
1. The object of an obligation is a property or a job to be performed or not performed.
2. The subject matter of the obligation must be determined.
Section 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF OBLIGATIONS
Article 277. Venue for performance of obligations
1. The place for performance of obligations shall be agreed upon by the parties.
2. If there is no agreement, the place of performance of the obligation is determined as follows:
a) The place where the immovable property is located, if the subject matter of the obligation is immovable property;
b) The place of residence or place of office of the obligee, if the subject matter of the obligation is not immovable property.
When the obligee changes the place of residence or head office, it must notify the obligee and bear the increased costs resulting from the change of domicile or domicile, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 278. Time limit for performance of obligations
1. The time limit for performance of an obligation shall be agreed upon by the parties, as prescribed by law or under a decision of a competent authority.
2. The obligor must perform the obligation on time, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.
Where the obligor has voluntarily performed the obligation ahead of time and the obligee has accepted the performance of the obligation, the obligation is considered to have been completed on time.
3. In case the time limit for performance of an obligation cannot be determined as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, each party may perform the obligation or request the performance of the obligation at any time but must notify the other party. a reasonable time in advance.
Article 279. Performance of the obligation to deliver objects
1. The party obligated to deliver the object must preserve and preserve the object until it is delivered.
2. When the object to be delivered is a specific object, the obligor must deliver the same object and in the right condition as committed; if it is an object of the same type, it must be delivered with the right quantity and quality as agreed; if there is no agreement on quality, it must be delivered with the object of average quality; if it is a synchronous object, it must be delivered synchronously.
3. The obligor must bear all costs for the delivery of the object, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 280. Performance of payment obligations
1. The payment obligation must be performed in full, on time, at the agreed place and method.
2. The payment obligation includes interest on the principal, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 281. Obligation to perform or not to perform a job
1. Obligation to perform an act is an obligation under which the obligor must properly perform that task.
2. Obligation not to perform an act is an obligation under which the obligor must not perform that act.
Article 282. Periodic performance of obligations
Obligations are performed periodically as agreed upon, prescribed by law or decided by a competent authority.
The delay in performance of obligations by period is also considered as late performance of obligations.
Article 283. Performance of obligations through a third person
With the consent of the obligee, the obligor may authorize a third person to perform the obligation on his/her behalf, but still be liable to the obligee, if the third party fails to perform or performs improperly. service.
Article 284. Conditional performance of obligations
1. Where the parties have an agreement or the law prescribes conditions for performance of an obligation, when such conditions arise, the obligor must perform.
2. Where the condition does not occur or occurs due to the influence of one party, the provisions of Clause 2, Article 120 of this Code shall apply.
Article 285. Performance of an obligation with an object of his or her choice
1. An obligation with an optional object is an obligation where the subject matter is one of many different properties or jobs and the obligor can choose at its discretion, unless otherwise agreed or provided by law. provisions give the right of choice to the obligee.
2. The obligor must notify the obligee of the property or work selected for the performance of the obligation. If the obligee has determined the time limit for performance of the selected obligation, the obligee must complete it on time.
3. Where there is only one property or one job left, the obligor must hand over that property or perform that task.
Article 286. Performance of replaceable obligations
A replaceable obligation is an obligation for which the obligor fails to perform the original obligation, and can perform another obligation accepted by the obligee to replace that obligation.
Article 287. Performance of separate obligations
When many people perform the same obligation, but each has a certain and separate part of the obligation, each person must perform only his/her share of the obligation.
Article 288. Performance of joint obligations
1. A joint obligation is an obligation to be performed by more than one person and the obligee may require any of the obligors to perform the entire obligation.
2. Where a person has performed the entire obligation, he/she has the right to request other joint obligors to perform their part of the joint obligation towards him/her.
3. Where the obligee has appointed one of the joint obligors to perform the entire obligation, but later exempts that person, the remaining persons are also exempt from performing the obligation.
4. Where the obligee only exempts one of the joint obligors from performing his/her part of the obligation, the remaining parties must still jointly perform their part of the obligation. .
Article 289. Performance of obligations towards many persons with related rights
1. Obligation towards more than one obligee is an obligation whereby each of the obligees can request the obligor to perform the entire obligation.
2. The obligor may perform its obligations towards any of the joint claimants.
3. In case one of the persons with related rights exempts the obligor from having to perform part of the obligation towards him/her, the obligor must still perform the remaining part of the obligation towards the related obligors. other zone.
Article 290. Performance of divisible obligations by part
1. A divisible obligation is an obligation whose subject matter can be divided into several parts for performance.
2. The obligor may partially perform the obligation, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 291. Performance of indivisible obligations according to part
1. An indivisible obligation is an obligation whose subject matter must be performed at the same time.
2. Where more than one person must perform an indivisible obligation at the same time, they must perform the obligation at the same time.
Section 3. SECURITY OF OBLIGATIONS
Subsection 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 292. Measures to secure the performance of obligations
Measures to secure the performance of obligations include:
1. Pledge of property.
2. Property mortgage.
3. Deposit.
4. Make a bet.
5. Escrow.
6. Ownership reservation.
7. Guarantee.
8. Unsecured credit.
9. Holding property.
Article 293. Scope of guaranteed obligations
1. Obligations may be secured in part or in whole as agreed upon or prescribed by law; if there is no agreement and the law does not specify the scope of security, the obligation is considered to be fully secured, including the obligation to pay interest, fines and compensation for damage.
2. A secured obligation can be a present obligation, a future obligation or a conditional obligation.
3. In case of securing a future obligation, an obligation formed within the security period is a secured obligation, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 294. Security for future performance of obligations
1. In case of securing the performance of a future obligation, the parties have the right to agree specifically on the scope of the secured obligation and the time limit for performance of the secured obligation, unless otherwise provided for by law. .
2. When a future obligation is formed, the parties are not required to re-establish a security measure for that obligation.
Article 295. Collateral
1. The security property must be owned by the securing party, except for the case of property holding or ownership retention.
2. Collateral may be described in general, but must be identifiable.
3. Collateral can be existing assets or assets formed in the future.
4. The value of the security property may be greater than, equal to or smaller than the value of the secured obligation.
Article 296. One property used to secure the performance of many obligations
1. An asset may be used to secure the performance of many obligations, if the value at the time of establishment of the security transaction is greater than the total value of the secured obligations, unless otherwise agreed. or otherwise provided by law.
2. Where a property is secured for the performance of multiple obligations, the securing party must notify the following secured party of the fact that the security property is being used to secure the performance of other obligations. Each warrant must be in writing.
3. Where property must be disposed of in order to perform a due obligation, other obligations that are not yet due are considered due and all parties jointly receiving security are entitled to participate in the handling of the property. The secured party which has notified about the disposal of the property shall be responsible for the disposal of the property, unless otherwise agreed upon by the jointly secured parties.
Where the parties wish to continue to perform undue obligations, they may agree on the use of other assets by the securing party to secure the performance of undue obligations.
Article 297. Anti-third party effect
1. The security interest becomes effective against a third party from the time of registration of the security interest or the secured party holds or seizes the security property.
2. When a security interest becomes effective against a third party, the secured party is entitled to recourse to the security property and is entitled to payment as prescribed in Article 308 of this Code and other relevant laws. mandarin.
Article 298. Registration of security interests
1. Security interest is registered under agreement or as prescribed by law.
Registration is a condition for a security transaction to take effect only in cases where it is required by law.
2. In case of registration, the security interest shall take effect against the third party from the time of registration.
3. The registration of security interests shall comply with the provisions of the law on registration of security interests.
Article 299. Cases of handling security assets
1. By the due date for performance of the secured obligation, the obligor fails to perform or improperly performs the obligation.
2. The obligor must perform the secured obligation ahead of time due to a breach of the obligation as agreed or prescribed by law.
3. Other cases as agreed by the parties or provided for by law.
Article 300. Notice of handling of security property
1. Before disposing of the security property, the secured party must notify in writing within a reasonable time of the disposal of the security property to the securing party and other jointly secured parties.
For security assets in danger of being damaged leading to a decrease in value or total loss of value, the secured party has the right to immediately handle it, and must notify the guarantor and the insured parties at the same time. other guarantees regarding the disposal of such property.
2. In case the secured party fails to notify the handling of the security property as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article and causes damage, it must pay compensation to the securing party and other jointly secured parties.
Article 301. Handing over collateral for handling
The holder of the security property is obliged to hand over the security property to the secured party for handling when falling into one of the cases specified in Article 299 of this Code.
In case the property holder fails to hand over the property, the secured party has the right to request the court to settle it, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
Article 302. Right to receive back collateral
Before the time of disposing of the security property, if the securing party fully performs its obligations towards the secured party and pays the expenses incurred due to the delay in performance of the obligations, it shall have the right to receive such property back. unless otherwise provided by law.
Article 303. Methods of handling pledged or mortgaged properties
1. The securing party and the secured party have the right to agree on one of the following methods of handling the pledged or mortgaged property:
a) Auction of assets;
b) The secured party sells the property by itself;
c) The secured party receives the property itself to replace the performance of obligations of the securing party;
d) Other methods.
2. If there is no agreement on the method of handling the security property as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the property shall be auctioned, unless otherwise provided for by law.
Article 304. Sale of mortgaged or mortgaged properties
1. The auction of pledged or mortgaged properties must comply with the law on asset auction.
2. The self-sale of pledged or mortgaged property by the secured party shall comply with the provisions on sale of assets in this Code and the following provisions:
a) The payment of money obtained from the disposal of property shall comply with the provisions of Article 307 of this Code;
b) After the result of asset sale is obtained, the property owner and the party with the right to handle the property must carry out procedures as prescribed by law to transfer the ownership of the property to the property purchaser.
Article 305. Receiving the security property itself to replace the performance of obligations of the securing party
1. The secured party is entitled to receive the security property itself to replace the performance of obligations of the securing party if there is an agreement when establishing the security transaction.
2. If there is no agreement as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the secured party may only receive the security property itself as a substitute for the performance of obligations when the securing party agrees in writing.
3. Where the value of the security property is greater than the value of the secured obligation, the secured party must pay the difference amount to the securing party; where the value of the collateral is smaller than the value of the secured obligation, the unpaid portion of the obligation becomes an unsecured obligation.
4. The securing party is obliged to carry out the procedures for transferring the ownership of the property to the secured party in accordance with law.
Article 306. Valuation of collateral
1. The guarantor and the secured party have the right to agree on the price of the security asset or determine it through an asset valuation organization when handling the security asset.
If there is no agreement, the property will be valued through an asset valuation organization.
2. The valuation of security assets must be objective and consistent with market prices.
3. The valuation organization must compensate for damage if it commits illegal acts that cause damage to the securing party or the secured party in the course of valuing the security property.
Article 307. Payment of money obtained from the handling of pledged or mortgaged property
1. The money obtained from the handling of the pledged or mortgaged property after payment of expenses for preservation, seizure and handling of the pledged or mortgaged property shall be paid in the order of priority specified in Article 2 of this Law. 308 of this Code.
2. In case the amount of money obtained from the handling of the pledged or mortgaged property after payment of expenses for preservation, seizure and handling of the pledged or mortgaged property is larger than the value of the secured obligation, the difference must be paid to the guarantor.
3. In case the amount of money obtained from handling the pledged or mortgaged property after payment of expenses for preservation, seizure and handling of the pledged or mortgaged property is smaller than the value of the secured obligation, the unpaid portion of the obligation is determined to be an unsecured obligation, unless the parties agree on additional security assets. The secured party has the right to require the secured obligor to perform the unpaid portion of the obligation.
Article 308. Order of priority for payment between the parties to jointly receive the security property
1. When an asset is used to secure the performance of many obligations, the order of priority for payment between the jointly secured parties is determined as follows:
a) Where the security measures are effective against a third party, the order of payment shall be determined according to the order in which the countervailing effect is established;
b) In case there is a security measure that becomes effective against a third party and there is a security measure that does not take effect against a third party, the obligation to have a security measure that is effective against the third party is required. the third person is paid in advance;
c) If the security measures are not effective against the third party, the order of payment shall be determined according to the order in which the security interest is established.
2. The order of priority for payment specified in Clause 1 of this Article may be changed if the two secured parties agree to change the order of priority for payment to each other. The subrogation is entitled to priority payment only to the extent guaranteed by the subrogation party.
Subsection 2. Pledge of Property
Article 309. Pledge of property
A pledge of property means the handover of property under its ownership by one party (hereinafter referred to as the pledgee) to the other party (hereinafter referred to as the pledgee) to secure the performance of an obligation.
Article 310. Effect of mortgage of property
1. A property pledge contract takes effect from the time it is signed, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
2. The pledge of property takes effect against a third party from the time when the pledgee holds the pledged property.
In case the immovable property is the subject of a pledge according to the provisions of law, the pledge of the immovable property shall take effect against the third party from the time of registration.
Article 311. Obligations of the pledgee
1. Deliver the pledged property to the pledgee in accordance with the agreement.
2. Notify the pledgee of the rights of a third party to the pledged property, if any; in case of failure to notify, the pledgee has the right to cancel the contract of pledge of the property and demand compensation for damage or maintain the contract and accept the rights of a third party to the pledged property.
3. Pay the pledgee reasonable expenses for preserving the pledged property, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 312. Rights of the pledgee
1. To request the pledgee to terminate the use of the pledged property in the case specified in Clause 3, Article 314 of this Code if, due to use, the pledged property is in danger of losing its value or decreasing value.
2. To request the pledgee to return the pledged property and related papers, if any, when the obligation secured by the pledge terminates.
3. To request the pledgee to compensate for damage caused to the pledged property.
4. To be able to sell, replace, exchange or donate the pledged property if it is so agreed by the pledgee or as prescribed by law.
Article 313. Obligations of the pledgee
1. Preserve and preserve the pledged property; if the pledged property is lost, misplaced or damaged, it must compensate the pledgor for damage.
2. Not to sell, exchange, donate or use the pledged property to secure the performance of other obligations.
3. Not to lease, lend, exploit the utility, enjoy the yields and profits from the pledged property, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Return the pledged property and related papers, if any, when the obligation secured by the pledge terminates or is replaced by another security measure.
Article 314. Rights of the pledgee
1. To request the person who is illegally possessing or using the pledged property to return such property.
2. Handle the pledged property according to the agreed method or according to the provisions of law.
3. To lease, lend, exploit the utility of the pledged property and enjoy yields and profits from the pledged property, if so agreed.
4. To be paid reasonable expenses for preserving the pledged property when returning the property to the pledgee.
Article 315. Termination of mortgage of property
The mortgage of property shall terminate in the following cases:
1. An obligation secured by a pledge terminates.
2. The pledge of property shall be canceled or replaced with another security measure.
3. The mortgaged property has been handled.
4. As agreed by the parties.
Article 316. Return of pledged property
When the pledge of property terminates according to the provisions of Clauses 1 and 2, Article 315 of this Code or as agreed by the parties, the pledged property and papers related to the pledged property shall be returned to the pledged party. pledge. Yields and profits obtained from the pledged property shall also be returned to the pledgee, unless otherwise agreed.
Subsection 3. mortgage of property
Article 317. Mortgage of property
1. Mortgage of property means the fact that one party (hereinafter referred to as the mortgagor) uses property under his/her ownership to secure the performance of an obligation and does not hand over the property to the other party (hereinafter referred to as the mortgagee). challenge).
2. The mortgaged property is kept by the mortgagor. The parties may agree to assign a third person to keep the mortgaged property.
Article 318. Collateralized property
1. In case of mortgage of the whole immovable property, movable property with auxiliary objects, the auxiliary objects of such immovable or movable property shall also be the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case of mortgage of a part of real estate or movable property with auxiliary objects, the auxiliary objects attached to such property shall belong to the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed.
3. In case the land use right is mortgaged and the properties attached to the land are owned by the mortgagor, the property attached to the land is also part of the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where the mortgaged property is insured, the mortgagee must notify the insurance organization that the insured property is being mortgaged. The insurance organization pays the insurance premium directly to the mortgagee upon the occurrence of the insured event.
In case the mortgagee fails to notify the insurance organization that the insured property is being mortgaged, the insurance organization shall pay the insurance premium according to the insurance contract and the mortgagor is obliged to pay the mortgage. payment to the mortgagee.
Article 319. Effect of mortgage of property
1. A property mortgage contract takes effect from the time it is signed, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided by law.
2. The property mortgage becomes effective against a third party from the time of registration.
Article 320. Obligations of the mortgagor
1. Hand over papers related to the mortgaged property as agreed by the parties, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. Preserve and preserve the mortgaged property.
3. Apply necessary measures to remedy, including stopping the exploitation of the use of the mortgaged property if due to such exploitation, the mortgaged property is in danger of losing its value or decreasing in value.
4. When the mortgaged property is damaged, within a reasonable time, the mortgagor must repair or replace it with another property of equivalent value, unless otherwise agreed.
5. Provide information on the actual status of the mortgaged property to the mortgagee.
6. Hand over the mortgaged property to the mortgagee for handling when it falls into one of the cases in which the security property is handled as prescribed in Article 299 of this Code.
7. Inform the mortgagee of the rights of the third party to the mortgaged property, if any; in case of failure to notify, the mortgagee has the right to cancel the contract of mortgage of the property and demand compensation for damage or maintain the contract and accept the rights of a third party to the mortgaged property.
8. The mortgaged property may not be sold, replaced, exchanged or donated, except for the cases specified in Clauses 4 and 5, Article 321 of this Code.
Article 321. Rights of the mortgagor
1. Exploiting the utility, enjoying the yields and profits from the mortgaged property, except where the yields and profits are also mortgaged as agreed.
2. Invest to increase the value of the collateral.
3. Receive back the mortgaged property held by a third party and papers related to the mortgaged property held by the mortgagee when the obligation secured by the mortgage terminates or is replaced by another security measure .
4. To be able to sell, replace or exchange the mortgaged property, if such property is a commodity circulated in the process of production and business. In this case, the right to demand payment from the buyer, the proceeds received, the property formed from the proceeds, the replaced or exchanged property becomes the collateral.
In case the mortgaged property is a warehouse, the mortgagor is entitled to replace the goods in the warehouse, but must ensure that the value of the goods in the warehouse is exactly as agreed.
5. To be sold, exchanged or given as a gift of the mortgaged property which is not a circulating commodity in the course of production or business, if so agreed by the mortgagee or as prescribed by law.
6. To be allowed to lease or lend the mortgaged property but must notify the lessee or the borrower that the leased or lent property is being used for mortgage and must notify the mortgagee.
Article 322. Obligations of the mortgagee
1. Return the papers to the mortgagor after terminating the mortgage, in case the parties agree that the mortgagee will keep the papers related to the mortgaged property.
2. Carry out the procedures for handling the mortgaged property in accordance with the provisions of law.
Article 323. Rights of the mortgagee
1. To directly examine and inspect the mortgaged property, but must not obstruct or cause difficulties for the formation, use and exploitation of the mortgaged property.
2. To request the mortgagor to provide information on the actual condition of the mortgaged property.
3. To request the mortgagor to apply necessary measures to preserve the property and the value of the property in case there is a risk of loss of value or decrease in the value of the property due to the exploitation and use.
4. Carry out the mortgage registration in accordance with the law.
5. To request the mortgagor or a third person keeping the mortgaged property to hand over such property to him/her for handling when the mortgagor fails to perform or improperly performs the obligation.
6. Keep papers related to the mortgaged property as agreed by the parties, unless otherwise provided for by law.
7. To handle the mortgaged property in the cases specified in Article 299 of this Code.
Article 324. Rights and obligations of the third party holding the mortgaged property
1. The third party holding the mortgaged property has the following rights:
a) To exploit the uses of the mortgaged property, if so agreed;
b) To be paid remuneration and expenses for preservation and maintenance of the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The third party holding the mortgaged property has the following obligations:
a) Preserve and preserve the mortgaged property; if the mortgaged property is lost, devalued or reduced in value, it must compensate;
b) Not to continue exploiting the use of the mortgaged property if the continued exploitation threatens to devalue or reduce the value of the mortgaged property;
c) Return the mortgaged property to the mortgagee or the mortgagor as agreed or prescribed by law.
Article 325. Mortgage of land use rights without mortgage of land-attached assets
1. In case of mortgage of land use rights without mortgage of land-attached assets and the land user is concurrently the owner of land-attached assets, the property to be handled includes the property attached to the land. with land, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the land use right is mortgaged and the land user is not concurrently the owner of the property on land, when handling the land use right, the owner of the property on land may continue to use it. use land within the scope of their rights and obligations; The rights and obligations of the mortgagor in relation to the owner of the property on land shall be transferred to the transferee of the land use right, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 326. Mortgage of land-attached assets without mortgage of land use rights
1. In case only property on land is mortgaged without mortgage of land use rights and the owner of the property on land is also a land user, the property shall be handled, including the right to use the land. land, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the property on land is only mortgaged without mortgage of the land use rights and the owner of the property on land is not concurrently a land user, when dealing with land-attached assets, the transferee of ownership of property on land may continue to use the land within the scope of the rights and obligations of the owner of the transferred property, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 327. Termination of mortgage of property
The mortgage of the property shall terminate in the following cases:
1. An obligation secured by a mortgage terminates.
2. The mortgage of the property is canceled or replaced with another security measure.
3. The mortgaged property has been disposed of.
4. As agreed by the parties.
Subsection 4. DEPOSIT, ESCROW, ESCROW
Article 328. Deposits
1. Deposit means when one party (hereinafter referred to as the depositor) hands over to the other party (hereinafter referred to as the deposit recipient) a sum of money or precious metals, gems or other valuables (hereinafter referred to as the depository). collectively referred to as deposit assets) for a period of time to secure the conclusion or performance of the contract.
2. Where a contract is entered into or performed, the deposit property shall be returned to the depositor or deducted for the performance of the payment obligation; if the depositor refuses to enter into and perform the contract, the deposited property belongs to the deposit recipient; if the deposit recipient refuses to enter into and perform the contract, he/she must pay the depositor the deposit property and an amount equivalent to the value of the deposited property, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 329. Deposits
1. Deposit means the lessee's handover to the lessor a sum of money or precious metals, gems or other valuables (hereinafter referred to as collateral) within a period of time to guarantee the return of the leased property.
2. In case the leased property is returned, the lessee is entitled to receive the security deposit back after paying the rent; if the lessee does not return the leased property, the lessor has the right to reclaim the leased property; if the leased property is no longer available for return, the collateral property belongs to the lessor.
Article 330. Deposits
1. Escrow means the obligor depositing a sum of money or precious metals, gems or valuable papers into an escrow account at a credit institution to secure the performance of the obligation.
2. In case the obligor fails to perform or performs improperly the obligation, the obligee shall be paid and compensated by the credit institution where the deposit is deposited, for damage caused by the obligor, after deducting expenses. service.
3. Procedures for sending and payment shall comply with the provisions of law.
Subsection 5. RESERVATION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS
Article 331. Ownership reservation
1. In the sale and purchase contract, the ownership of the property may be reserved by the seller until the payment obligation is fully fulfilled.
2. Ownership reservation must be made in a separate document or stated in the sale and purchase contract.
3. Ownership reservation becomes effective against a third party from the time of registration.
Article 332. Right to reclaim property
In case the buyer fails to fulfill the payment obligation to the seller as agreed, the seller has the right to reclaim the property. The seller refunds to the buyer the amount paid by the buyer after deducting the value of property wear and tear due to use. In case the buyer loses or damages the property, the seller has the right to claim compensation.
Article 333. Rights and obligations of the property purchaser
1. Use the property and enjoy the yields and profits from the property during the effective time of ownership retention.
2. Bear the risk of property during the term of title retention, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 334. Termination of title retention
Ownership reservation terminates in the following cases:
1. The payment obligation to the seller has been fulfilled.
2. The seller receives back the property with retention of ownership.
3. As agreed by the parties.
Subsection 6. WARRANTY
Article 335. Guarantee
1. Guarantee means the commitment by a third person (hereinafter referred to as the guarantor) to the obligee (hereinafter referred to as the guarantor) to perform an obligation on behalf of the obligor (hereinafter referred to as the obligee). the obligee), if the obligee fails to perform or improperly performs the obligation upon the due date.
2. The parties may agree that the guarantor only has to perform the obligation on behalf of the guaranteed in case the obligee is unable to perform the guarantee obligation.
Article 336. Scope of guarantee
1. The guarantor may undertake to guarantee part or all of the obligations to the obligee.
2. Guarantee obligation includes interest on principal, fines, compensation for damage, interest on late payment, unless otherwise agreed.
3. The parties may agree to use a property security measure to secure the performance of the guarantee obligation.
4. Where the guaranteed obligation is an obligation arising in the future, the scope of the guarantee does not include the obligation arising after the death of the guarantor or the guarantor's legal entity ceases to exist.
Article 337. Remuneration
The guarantor is entitled to remuneration if the guarantor and the guarantor agree.
Article 338. Multiple guarantors
When many people jointly guarantee an obligation, they must jointly perform the guarantee, unless there is an agreement or the law provides for guarantee in independent parts; the obligee may require any of the joint guarantors to perform the entire obligation.
When one of the joint guarantors has performed the entire obligation on behalf of the guarantor, he has the right to require the remaining guarantors to perform their part of their obligations towards him.
Article 339. Relationship between the guarantor and the guarantor
1. Where the obligee fails to perform or improperly performs his/her obligations, the guarantor has the right to request the guarantor to perform the guarantee obligation, unless the parties have agreed on the guarantor. The surety is only required to perform the obligation on behalf of the guaranteed in case the obligee is unable to perform the obligation.
2. The guarantor may not require the guarantor to perform an obligation on behalf of the obligee when the obligation is not yet due.
3. The guarantor is not required to perform the guarantee obligation in the event that the guarantor can offset the obligation with the obligee.
Article 340. Right to claim of the guarantor
The guarantor has the right to require the obligee to perform his/her obligations within the scope of the performed guarantee obligation, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 341. Exemption from the performance of guarantee obligations
1. Where the guarantor has to perform the guarantee obligation but the obligee exempts the guarantor from performing the obligation, the obligee is not required to perform the obligation towards the guarantor, unless agreed or otherwise provided for by law.
2. Where only one of many joint guarantors is exempted from performing his/her part of the guarantee obligation, the others must still perform their guarantee obligations.
3. In case one of the guarantors jointly exempts the guarantor from performing its part of its obligations, the guarantor must still perform the remaining part of the obligations towards the related guarantors. remaining zone.
Article 342. Civil liability of the guarantor
1. Where the obligee fails to perform or performs improperly an obligation, the guarantor must perform such obligation.
2. Where the guarantor fails to properly perform the guaranty obligation, the guarantor has the right to request the guarantor to pay the value of the breached obligation and pay compensation for damage.
Article 343. Termination of guarantee
The guarantee terminates in the following cases:
1. The guaranteed obligation is terminated.
2. The guarantee is canceled or replaced by another security measure.
3. The guarantor has performed the guarantee obligation.
4. As agreed by the parties.
Subsection 7. CREDIT
Article 344. Mortgage security of socio-political organizations
The grassroots socio-political organizations may provide unsecured loans for poor individuals and households to borrow a sum of money from credit institutions for production, business and consumption in accordance with law.
Article 345. Form and content of mortgage
Loans secured by unsecured loans must be made in writing and certified by a socio-political organization secured by unsecured loans regarding the borrower's conditions and circumstances.
An agreement on unsecured security must be specific in terms of the amount, purpose, loan term, interest rate, rights, obligations and responsibilities of the borrower, the lending credit institution and the insuring socio-political organization. secured by credit.
Subsection 8. HOLDING OF PROPERTY
Article 346. Property lien
Property lien means that the obligee (hereinafter referred to as the lien) legally holding the property that is the subject of a bilateral contract may seize the property in case the obligor fails to perform or is not currently in compliance.
Article 347. Establishment of property lien
1. Property lien arising from the due date for performance of an obligation but the obligor fails to perform or improperly performs the obligation.
2. The lien of property takes effect against a third party from the time the lien takes possession of the property.
Article 348. Rights of the lien
1. Require the obligor to fully perform the obligations arising from the bilateral contract.
2. To request the obligor to pay necessary expenses for the preservation and preservation of the seized property.
3. To exploit the held property to collect yields and profits if the obligor agrees.
The value of the exploitation of the lien is offset against the obligor's obligation.
Article 349. Obligations of the lien party
1. To keep and preserve the property held.
2. Not to change the status of the lien property.
3. Not to transfer or use the seized property without the consent of the obligor.
4. Hand over the lien property when the obligation has been performed.
5. Compensate for damage if the property is lost or damaged.
Article 350. Termination of lien
The lien on property shall terminate in the following cases:
1. The lien party no longer holds the property in fact.
2. The parties agree to use other security measures to replace the lien.
3. Obligations have been fulfilled.
4. The mortgaged property no longer exists.
5. As agreed by the parties.
Section 4. CIVIL RESPONSIBILITIES
Article 351. Civil liability for breach of obligation
1. If the obligor violates the obligation, it shall bear civil liability towards the obligee.
Breach of obligation means the obligor's failure to perform an obligation on time, incomplete performance of an obligation, or improper performance of the contents of the obligation.
2. Where the obligor fails to properly perform his/her obligations due to a force majeure event, he/she shall not bear any civil liability, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
3. The obligor is not liable for civil liability if it can prove that the obligee's failure to perform is entirely the fault of the obligee.
Article 352. Responsibility to continue performing obligations
When the obligor fails to perform its obligations properly, the obligee is entitled to request the obligor to continue performing the obligation.
Article 353. Delay in performing obligations
1. Late performance of an obligation means an obligation has not yet been performed or is only partially performed when the time limit for performance of an obligation has expired.
2. The party that is late in performing the obligation must immediately notify the obligee of its failure to perform the obligation on time.
Article 354. Postponement of performance of obligations
1. When it is impossible to perform an obligation on time, the obligor must immediately notify the obligee and request a postponement of the performance of the obligation.
In case of failure to notify the obligee, the obligor must compensate for the damage incurred, unless otherwise agreed upon or unable to notify for objective reasons.
2. The obligee may postpone the performance of the obligation, if so agreed by the obligee. The performance of an obligation when it is postponed is still considered to be performed on time.
Article 355. Delay in receiving the performance of obligations
1. Late acceptance of the performance of an obligation means when the time limit for performance of an obligation is reached, the obligor has already performed but the obligee does not accept the performance of such obligation.
2. In case of delay in receiving the object of the obligation which is property, the obligor may deposit the property at the place of deposit and keep the property or take other necessary measures to preserve the property and have the right to demand pay reasonable expenses. In case the property is deposited, the obligor must immediately notify the obligee.
3. With respect to property in danger of being damaged, the obligor has the right to sell such property and must immediately notify the obligee and pay the obligee the proceeds from the sale of the property after deducting it. reasonable costs to maintain and sell the property.
Article 356. Liability for failure to perform the obligation to deliver objects
1. If the obligation to deliver a particular object is not performed, the aggrieved party has the right to request the infringing party to hand over that object; if the object is no longer available or damaged, the value of the object must be paid.
2. If the obligation to hand over objects of the same type is not performed, the aggrieved party has the right to request the infringing party to hand over other objects of the same type; If there is no substitute for an object of the same type, the value of the object must be paid.
3. In case the breach of an obligation specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article causes damage to the aggrieved party, the breaching party must compensate for the damage.
Article 357. Liability for late performance of payment obligations
1. In case the obligor is late to pay, that party must pay interest on the amount of late payment corresponding to the late payment period.
2. The interest rate arising from late payment is determined by agreement of the parties but must not exceed the interest rate specified in Clause 1, Article 468 of this Code; if there is no agreement, the provisions of Clause 2, Article 468 of this Code shall apply.
Article 358. Liability for not performing or not performing a job
1. Where the obligor fails to perform a task that he/she is required to perform, the obligee may request the obligor to continue performing it, or perform it himself, or assign another person to perform that task, and request the obligor to pay reasonable expenses and compensate for damage.
2. When the obligor is not allowed to perform a task but performs it, the obligee is entitled to request the obligor to terminate the performance, restore the original condition and pay compensation for damage. harmful.
Article 359. Liability due to delay in receiving the performance of obligations
The obligee that is late in receiving the performance of an obligation, causing damage to the obligee, must compensate that party for damage and bear all risks and expenses arising from the time of delay, except unless otherwise provided by law.
Article 360. Liability to compensate for damage caused by breach of obligations
In case of damage caused by breach of obligation, the obligor must compensate for all damage, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
Article 361. Damage caused by breach of obligations
1. Damage caused by breach of obligation includes material damage and mental damage.
2. Material damage means the actual physical loss that can be determined, including loss of property, reasonable expenses to prevent, limit, remedy the damage, and the actual lost or lost income. reduced.
3. Mental damage is a mental loss caused by being infringed upon the life, health, honor, dignity, reputation and other personal interests of a subject.
Article 362. Obligation to prevent and limit damage
The obligee must take necessary and reasonable measures to prevent damage from occurring or limit its damage.
Article 363. Compensation for damage in case the aggrieved party is at fault
In case of breach of an obligation and damage is partly due to the fault of the aggrieved party, the breaching party shall only have to compensate for the damage corresponding to the extent of its fault.
Article 364. Errors in civil liability
Errors in civil liability include intentional errors, unintentional errors.
Intentional fault is a case where a person is well aware that his or her actions will cause damage to others but still performs and wishes or, though undesirable, allows the damage to occur.
An unintentional fault is a case where a person does not foresee that his act is likely to cause damage, even though he should have known or could have known in advance that the damage would occur or foresaw that his act was likely to cause damage, but assumes that the damage will not occur or be preventable.
Section 5. TRANSFER OF RIGHTS TO REQUIREMENTS AND TRANSFER OF OBLIGATIONS
Article 365. Transfer of right to request
1. The party having the right to demand the performance of an obligation may transfer that right to demand to the subrogator as agreed, except for the following cases:
a) The right to demand alimony, claim compensation for damage caused by infringing upon life, health, honor, dignity and reputation;
b) The obligee and the obligor have an agreement or the law provides for the non-transfer of the right to claim.
2. When the obligee transfers the right to claim to the subrogator, the subrogator becomes the claimant. The transfer of the right to claim does not require the consent of the obligor.
The assignor of the right to claim must notify the obligor in writing of the transfer of the right to claim, unless otherwise agreed. If the licensor fails to notify the transfer of the right and incurs costs to the obligor, the requesting licensor must pay these costs.
Article 366. Obligation to provide information and transfer documents
1. The requestor must provide necessary information and transfer relevant papers to the assignor.
2. If the person transferring the right to request violates the obligations specified in Clause 1 of this Article, causing damage, he/she must compensate for the damage.
Article 367. Not taking responsibility after transferring the right to claim
The assignor of the right to claim is not liable for the obligor's ability to perform the obligations after the assignment of the right to claim, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 368. Transfer of the right to request a measure to secure the performance of an obligation
Where the right to demand the performance of an obligation includes a security, the transfer of the right to claim includes that security measure.
Article 369. Obligee's right to refuse
1. Where the obligor is not notified of the assignment of the right to claim and the assignor fails to prove the authenticity of the assignment of the right to claim, the obligor has the right to refuse the performance of the obligation. service to the surrogate.
2. Where the obligee has not been notified of the transfer of the right to claim but has performed an obligation towards the assignor of the right to claim, the assignor shall not require the obligee to perform the obligation. service to yourself.
Article 370. Transfer of obligations
1. The obligor may transfer the obligation to the obligee if so agreed by the obligee, unless the obligation is attached to the obligee's identity or is not required by law to be transferred. duty.
2. When an obligation is transferred, the obligor becomes the obligor.
Article 371. Transfer of obligations with security measures
Where an obligation with a security is transferred, such security shall terminate, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 6. TERMINATION OF OBLIGATIONS
Article 372. Grounds for termination of obligations
The obligation terminates in the following cases:
1. Obligations are fulfilled;
2. As agreed by the parties;
3. The obligee is exempt from performing the obligation;
4. Obligations are replaced by other obligations;
5. Obligations are cleared;
6. The obligee and the obligee are merged into one;
7. The statute of limitations for discharge from obligations has expired;
8. The obligor being an individual dies or the legal entity ceases to exist but the obligation must be performed by that individual or legal entity;
9. The obligee being an individual dies but the right to claim does not belong to the inheritance or is a juridical person ceases to exist but the right to claim is not transferred to another juridical person;
10. The specific object that is the object of the obligation no longer exists and is replaced by another obligation;
11. Other cases prescribed by law.
Article 373. Fulfillment of obligations
An obligation is fulfilled when the obligor has performed the entire obligation or performed a part of the obligation, but the remainder is waived by the obligee.
Article 374. Fulfillment of obligations in case the obligee is slow to receive the object of the obligation
When the obligee is late in accepting the object of the obligation which is property, the obligation shall be fulfilled at the time the property has been deposited at the depository place as prescribed in Clause 2, Article 355 of this Code.
Article 375. Termination of contractual obligations
The parties may agree to terminate their obligations at any time, but must not cause damage to the national interests, ethnic groups, public interests, legitimate rights and interests of others.
Article 376. Termination of obligations due to exemption from performance of obligations
1. An obligation shall terminate when the obligee exempts the obligee from performing the obligation, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. When the obligation with a security interest is waived, the security interest shall also terminate.
Article 377. Termination of obligations due to being replaced by other obligations
1. Where the parties agree to replace the original obligation with another obligation, the original obligation shall terminate.
2. The obligation also terminates, if the obligee has taken over the property or other work in place of the pre-agreed property or work.
3. Where the obligation is the obligation to support, pay compensation for damage caused by infringing on life, health, honor, dignity, reputation and other personal obligations that cannot be transferred to another person. shall not be replaced by another obligation.
Article 378. Termination of obligations due to clearing of obligations
1. Where the parties have an obligation to each other on property of the same type, they are not required to perform their obligations towards each other when they come due and the obligation is considered terminated, unless otherwise provided for by law. .
2. Where the value of the property or the job is not equivalent, the parties shall pay each other for the difference in value.
3. Items valued for money can also offset the obligation to pay.
Article 379. Cases in which obligations cannot be cleared
Obligations are not offset in the following cases:
1. Obligations in dispute;
2. Obligation to compensate for damage caused by infringing on life, health, honor, dignity and reputation;
3. Support obligations;
4. Other obligations prescribed by law.
Article 380. Termination of obligations due to merging of obligee and obligee
When the obligor becomes the obligee to the obligation itself, the obligation terminates.
Article 381. Termination of obligations due to expiration of the statute of limitations for discharge
When the statute of limitations for exemption from obligations has expired, the obligation shall terminate.
Article 382. Termination of obligations when the obligee being an individual dies or the legal entity ceases to exist
When the parties have an agreement or the law provides that an obligation is performed only for an individual or a juridical person who is the obligee, but the individual dies or the juridical person ceases to exist, the obligation also terminates.
Article 383. Termination of obligations when the specific object no longer exists
The obligation to hand over an object shall terminate in case the object to be delivered is a specific object no longer available.
The parties may agree to replace the object or compensate for the damage.
Article 384. Termination of obligations in case of bankruptcy
In case of bankruptcy, the obligation shall terminate according to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7. CONTRACT
Subsection 1. ENTERING CONTRACT
Article 385. Definition of contract
Contract is an agreement between parties on the establishment, change or termination of civil rights and obligations.
Article 386. Proposal for entering into a contract
1. An offer to enter into a contract is a clear expression of the offeror's intention to enter into a contract and to be bound by this offer to an identified party or to the public (hereinafter collectively referred to as the party). recommended).
2. In case the offer to enter into a contract specifies a time limit for a reply, if the offeror re-enters the contract with a third party within the time limit waiting for the offeree's reply, it must pay compensation to the beneficiary. offer without entering into a contract if damage is incurred.
Article 387. Information in entering into a contract
1. Where one party has information affecting the other party's acceptance to enter into a contract, it must notify the other party.
2. Where a party receives confidential information of the other party during the process of entering into a contract, it is responsible for keeping the information confidential and must not use such information for its own purposes or for illegal purposes. other law.
3. If the party violating the provisions of Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article causes damage, it must compensate.
Article 388. Effective date of proposal for entering into a contract
1. The effective date of an offer to enter into a contract is determined as follows:
a) To be fixed by the offeror;
b) If the offeror does not specify, the offer to enter into a contract shall take effect from the time the offeree receives such offer, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
2. The following cases are considered to have received an offer to enter into a contract:
a) The offer is transferred to the place of residence, if the offeree is an individual; transferred to the headquarters, if the proposed party is a legal entity;
b) The offer is included in the official information system of the offeree;
c) When the offeree learns of the offer to enter into a contract through other methods.
Article 389. Change or withdrawal of the proposal for entering into a contract
1. The party offering to enter into a contract may change or withdraw its offer to enter into a contract in the following cases:
a) The offeree receives notice of the change or withdrawal of the offer before or at the same time as the receipt of the offer;
b) Conditions for changing or withdrawing an offer arise in case the offeror clearly states that it is allowed to change or withdraw the offer when such conditions arise.
2. When the offeror changes the contents of the offer, it is a new offer.
Article 390. Cancellation of an offer to enter into a contract
The offeror may cancel the offer if this right is clearly stated in the offer and the offeree receives notice of the cancellation of the offer before he/she sends the notice of acceptance of the offer. contract.
Article 391. Termination of request for contract conclusion
It is recommended to terminate the contract in the following cases:
1. The offeree accepts to enter into a contract;
2. The offeree's reply does not accept;
3. Expiry of the time limit for replying to accept;
4. When the notice of change or withdrawal of the offer takes effect;
5. When the notice of cancellation of the offer takes effect;
6. As agreed by the offeror and the offeree within the time limit for waiting for the offeree's reply.
Article 392. Amendment to the offer proposed by the offeree
When the offeree has accepted to enter into a contract, but conditions or amendments to the offer are stated, it is considered that this person has made a new offer.
Article 393. Acceptance of offers to enter into contracts
1. Acceptance of an offer to enter into a contract is the offeree's reply to the acceptance of the entire content of the offer.
2. The offeree's silence is not considered acceptance of the offer to enter into a contract, unless there is an agreement or according to established habits between the parties.
Article 394. Time limit for reply to accept the conclusion of the contract
1. When the offeror has fixed a time limit for a reply, the acceptance reply shall only take effect when it is made within that time limit; If the offeror receives a reply after the time limit for reply has expired, this acceptance shall be considered as a new offer of the late party.
When the offeror does not specify a time limit for reply, the acceptance reply shall only be valid if it is made within a reasonable time.
2. In case the notice of acceptance to enter into the contract is delayed due to objective reasons and the offeror knows or ought to know about this objective reason, the notice of acceptance to enter into the contract will still be valid, unless The offeror immediately replies that it disagrees with the offeree's acceptance.
3. When the parties communicate directly with each other, even in the case of telephone or other means, the offeree must immediately reply with acceptance or non-acceptance, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. about the response time.
Article 395. In case the offeror dies, loses his/her civil act capacity or has difficulties in perception and behavior control
In case the offeror dies, loses his/her civil act capacity or has difficulties in perception and behavior control after the offeree accepts to enter into a contract, the offer to enter into a contract is still valid. value, except where the content of the contract is related to the offeror's identity.
Article 396. In case the party offered to enter into a contract dies, loses civil act capacity or has difficulties in perception and behavior control
In case the offeree has accepted to enter into a contract but later dies, loses civil act capacity or has difficulties in perception and behavior control, the reply to accept the conclusion of the contract is still valid. value, except where the content of the contract is related to the offeree's identity.
Article 397. Withdrawal of notice of acceptance to enter into a contract
The offeree may withdraw the notice of acceptance to enter into the contract, if the notice of such withdrawal comes before or at the same time the offeror receives a reply of acceptance to enter into the contract.
Article 398. Content of the contract
1. The parties to a contract have the right to agree on the contents of the contract.
2. A contract may contain the following contents:
a) The subject matter of the contract;
b) Quantity and quality;
c) Price, payment method;
d) Time limit, place and method of contract performance;
d) Rights and obligations of the parties;
e) Liability for breach of contract;
g) Dispute settlement method.
Article 399. Place for entering into a contract
The place for entering into the contract shall be agreed upon by the parties; if there is no agreement, the place for entering into a contract is the place of residence of the individual or the head office of the legal entity that has made the offer to enter into the contract.
Article 400. Time of contract conclusion
1. The contract is entered into at the time the offeror receives the acceptance to enter into the contract.
2. Where the parties have agreed that silence is the response to accept the conclusion of the contract within a time limit, the time of entering into the contract is the last time of that time limit.
3. The time of entering into a verbal contract is the time when the parties have agreed on the content of the contract.
4. The time of entering into a written contract is the time when the last party signs the document or by another form of acceptance shown in the document.
In case a contract is entered into orally and then in writing, the time of contract conclusion shall be determined according to Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 401. Effect of the contract
1. A legally concluded contract takes effect from the time of conclusion, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided by relevant laws.
2. From the time the contract takes effect, the parties must perform their rights and obligations towards each other as committed. The contract can only be modified or canceled by agreement of the parties or according to the provisions of law.
Article 402. Main types of contracts
Contracts include the following main types:
1. A bilateral contract is a contract in which each party has obligations towards each other.
2. A unilateral contract is a contract in which only one party has obligations.
3. Main contract is a contract whose validity does not depend on the sub-contract.
4. Sub-contract is a contract whose validity depends on the main contract.
5. A contract for the benefit of a third party is a contract in which the contracting parties must perform an obligation and the third party enjoys benefits from the performance of such obligation.
6. A conditional contract is a contract whose performance is dependent on the arising, changing or termination of a certain event.
Article 403. Contract appendices
1. A contract may have an appendix attached to detail a number of terms of the contract. The contract addendum has the same effect as the contract. The content of the contract appendix must not be contrary to the content of the contract.
2. In case the contract appendix contains a clause contrary to the content of the contract's terms, this provision shall not take effect, unless otherwise agreed. In case the parties accept the contract appendix containing a clause contrary to the terms of the contract, it shall be considered that such clause in the contract has been amended.
Article 404. Interpretation of contracts
1. When a contract has an unclear provision, the interpretation of that provision must not only be based on the words of the contract, but also must be based on the will of the parties expressed in the entire process before, at the time of the contract. point of establishment and performance of the contract.
2. When a contract has terms or words that can be understood in many different ways, they must be interpreted in the sense that best suits the purpose and nature of the contract.
3. When a contract contains terms or words that are difficult to understand, it must be explained according to custom at the place where the contract is concluded.
4. The terms of a contract must be interpreted in relation to each other, so that their meaning is consistent with the entire contract.
5. In case there is a conflict between the common will of the parties and the words used in the contract, the common will of the parties shall be used to interpret the contract.
6. Where the drafting party includes in the contract content that is unfavorable to the other party, when interpreting the contract, it must be in favor of the other party.
Article 405. Model contracts
1. Model contract is a contract that includes provisions made by one party in a form for the other party to respond within a reasonable time; if the offeree replies with acceptance, it shall be deemed to have accepted the entire content of the contract according to the form provided by the offeror.
Model contracts must be made public so that the offeree knows or must know about the contents of the contract.
The order and mode of publicizing the contract according to the form shall comply with the provisions of law.
2. Where the model contract contains an unclear provision, the party offering the model contract shall be at a disadvantage when interpreting such provision.
3. In case a model contract contains a clause that exempts the party offering the model contract from liability, increases liability or eliminates legitimate interests of the other party, this provision shall not take effect, unless otherwise agreed. other agreement.
Article 406. General transaction conditions in entering into contracts
1. General transaction conditions are stable terms announced by one party for general application to the party offered to enter into a contract; if the offeree accepts to enter into the contract, it shall be deemed to have accepted these terms.
2. General transaction conditions are only valid for the transaction establishing party in case these transaction conditions have been made public so that the transaction establishing party knows or must know about such conditions.
The order and mode of publicizing general trading conditions shall comply with the provisions of law.
3. General transaction conditions must ensure equality between the parties. In case the general transaction conditions contain provisions on exemption from liability of the party providing the general transaction conditions, increasing liability or eliminating legitimate interests of the other party, this provision shall not take effect, unless otherwise specified. other agreement.
Article 407. Invalid contract
1. The provisions on invalid civil transactions from Article 123 to Article 133 of this Code also apply to invalid contracts.
2. The invalidity of the main contract terminates the sub-contract, unless the parties agree that the sub-contract may replace the main contract. This provision does not apply to measures to secure the performance of obligations.
3. The invalidity of the sub-contract does not terminate the main contract, unless the parties agree that the sub-contract is an integral part of the main contract.
Article 408. The contract is void due to an object that cannot be performed
1. If, from the moment of conclusion, the contract has an object that cannot be performed, this contract shall be invalidated.
2. In case when entering into a contract, one party knows or should know that the contract has an object that cannot be performed but fails to notify the other party, so the other party has entered into the contract, it must compensate for damage. to the other party, unless the other party knows or ought to know that the contract is unenforceable.
3. The provisions of Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article shall also apply to cases where a contract has one or more parts of the object that cannot be performed but the remainder of the contract is still valid.
Subsection 2. CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION
Article 409. Performance of unilateral contracts
For a unilateral contract, the obligor must perform the obligation exactly as agreed, only before or after the time limit if the obligee agrees.
Article 410. Performance of bilateral contracts
1. In a bilateral contract, when the parties have agreed on a time limit for performance of an obligation, each party must perform its obligation when it is due; may not postpone performance on the ground that the other party has not performed its obligations towards them, except for the cases specified in Articles 411 and 413 of this Code.
2. If the parties do not agree on which party to perform the obligation first, the parties must simultaneously perform the obligations towards each other; If an obligation cannot be performed at the same time, whichever obligation takes longer to perform must be performed first.
Article 411. Right to postpone performance of obligations in bilateral contracts
1. The party that has to perform the obligation first has the right to postpone the performance of the obligation, if the other party's ability to perform the obligation has been seriously reduced to the extent that it cannot perform the obligation as committed until the other party the other is capable of performing the obligation or has a measure to secure the performance of the obligation.
2. The latter party has the right to postpone the performance of the due obligation if the previous obligor has not yet performed its obligation when it is due.
Article 412. Property lien in bilateral contracts
Where the obligor fails to properly perform his/her obligations, the obligee shall establish a lien over the obligor's property according to the provisions of Articles 346 to 350 of this Code.
Article 413. Obligations that cannot be performed due to one party's fault
In a bilateral contract, when one party fails to perform its obligations due to the fault of the other party, it has the right to require the other party to still perform its obligations towards them or to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage. .
Article 414. Failure to perform obligations but not due to the fault of the parties
In a bilateral contract, if one party fails to perform an obligation but both parties are not at fault, the failed party has no right to request the other party to perform the obligation towards him/her. Where one party has performed part of an obligation, it has the right to request the other party to perform the corresponding part of the obligation towards it.
Article 415. Performance of a contract for the benefit of a third party
When performing a contract for the benefit of a third party, the third party has the right to directly request the obligor to perform the obligation towards him; If the parties to the contract have a dispute about the performance of the contract, the third party has no right to demand the performance of the obligation until the dispute is resolved.
The obligee may also require the obligor to perform the contract for the benefit of a third party.
Article 416. Right to refuse by third parties
1. Where a third party denies his/her benefits before the obligor performs the obligation, the obligor is not required to perform the obligation, but must notify the obligee and the contract is deemed to have been canceled. canceled, the parties must return to each other what has been received.
2. Where a third party denies its benefits after the obligor has performed the obligation, the obligation is considered to have been fulfilled and the obligee still has to perform its commitment towards the obligor. In this case, the benefits arising from the contract belong to the party who, if the contract is not for the benefit of a third party, is the beneficiary, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 417. Not to modify or cancel the contract for the benefit of a third party
When the third party has agreed to enjoy benefits, even if the contract has not been performed, the contracting parties may not modify or cancel the contract, unless otherwise agreed by the third party.
Article 418. Agreement on fines for violations
1. Penalty for breach is an agreement between the parties in a contract, whereby the breaching party must pay a sum of money to the aggrieved party.
2. The level of fines for violations shall be agreed upon by the parties, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws.
3. The parties may agree that the breaching party must only pay a penalty for the breach without having to pay compensation, or both must pay a penalty for the violation and have to pay compensation for damage.
In case the parties agree on penalties for violations but do not agree on both paying penalties for violations and compensating for damage, the breaching party will only have to pay penalties for violations.
Article 419. Compensation for damage caused by breach of contract
1. Compensation for damage caused by breach of contractual obligations shall be determined according to the provisions of Clause 2 of this Article, Article 13 and Article 360 of this Code.
2. The obligee may claim compensation for benefits he or she would otherwise be entitled to under the contract. The obligee may also require the obligor to pay expenses incurred due to the non-fulfillment of the contractual obligations that do not overlap with the level of compensation for the benefits brought by the contract.
3. At the request of the obligee, the court may compel the obligee to pay compensation for mental damage to the obligee. The level of compensation shall be decided by the Court based on the contents of the case.
Article 420. Performance of a contract when circumstances change fundamentally
1. Circumstances change fundamentally when the following conditions are fully satisfied:
a) The change of circumstances due to objective causes occurs after the conclusion of the contract;
b) At the time of entering into the contract, the parties cannot foresee the change of circumstances;
c) Circumstances change so much that if the parties had known in advance, the contract would not have been concluded or was concluded with completely different contents;
d) The continuation of the contract performance without changing the contract contents will cause serious damage to one party;
dd) The affected party has applied all necessary measures within its capacity, in accordance with the nature of the contract, but cannot prevent or minimize the extent of the impact on the interests.
2. In the event of a fundamental change in circumstances, the party with interests affected has the right to request the other party to renegotiate the contract within a reasonable period.
3. Where the parties cannot agree on the modification of the contract within a reasonable time, one of the parties may request the Court:
a) Termination of the contract at a definite time;
b) Modify the contract to balance the legitimate rights and interests of the parties due to the fundamental change in circumstances.
The court may only decide to amend the contract in cases where the termination of the contract will cause more damage than the costs to perform the contract if it is amended.
4. In the course of negotiation, amendment and termination of the contract, and the court settles the case, the parties must continue to perform their obligations under the contract, unless otherwise agreed.
Subsection 3. MODIFICATION, TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
Article 421. Contract modification
1. The parties may agree to amend the contract.
2. The contract may be amended according to the provisions of Article 420 of this Code.
3. The revised contract must follow the form of the original contract.
Article 422. Termination of contract
The contract terminates in the following cases:
1. The contract has been completed;
2. As agreed by the parties;
3. The individual entering into the contract dies, the legal person entering into the contract ceases to exist, but the contract must be performed by such individual or legal entity;
4. The contract is canceled or unilaterally terminated;
5. The contract cannot be performed because the subject matter of the contract no longer exists;
6. The contract is terminated according to the provisions of Article 420 of this Code;
7. Other cases prescribed by law.
Article 423. Cancellation of contracts
1. A party has the right to cancel the contract and not have to pay compensation for damage in the following cases:
a) The other party's breach of the contract is the cancellation condition agreed upon by the parties;
b) The other party seriously violates the contractual obligations;
c) Other cases prescribed by law.
2. Serious breach is the failure of one party to properly perform an obligation to the extent that it causes the other party to fail to achieve the purpose of entering into a contract.
3. The party canceling the contract must immediately notify the other party of the cancellation. If failure to notify causes damage, it must compensate.
Article 424. Cancellation of contracts due to late performance of obligations
1. Where the obligor fails to properly perform an obligation and the obligee requests the performance of the obligation within a reasonable time, but the obligor fails to perform, the obligee may cancel the contract.
2. Where due to the nature of the contract or the will of the parties, the contract will not achieve its purpose if it is not performed within a certain time limit but after that time limit the obligor fails to perform properly. the other party has the right to cancel the contract without having to comply with the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 425. Cancellation of contracts due to inability to perform
Where the obligee is unable to perform part or all of his obligation, making the obligee's purpose unattainable, the obligee may cancel the contract and claim damages.
Article 426. Cancellation of contracts in cases where property is lost or damaged
In case one party loses or damages the property that is the subject of the contract but cannot return or compensate for it with another property or cannot repair or replace it with property of the same type, the other party has the right to cancel the contract. contract.
The violator must compensate in cash equal to the value of the lost or damaged property, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed in Clauses 2 and 3, Article 351 and Article 363 of this Code.
Article 427. Consequences of contract cancellation
1. When the contract is canceled, the contract will not take effect from the time of signing, the parties are not required to perform the agreed obligations, except for the agreement on penalty for violation, compensation for damage and agreement on settlement. dispute resolution.
2. The parties must return to each other what they have received after deducting reasonable costs in contract performance and costs of property preservation and development.
Refund is made in kind. In case it is not possible to return in kind, the money value will be refunded.
Where both parties are obliged to return, the refund must be made at the same time, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided by law.
3. The party suffering damage due to the other party's breach of obligations shall be compensated.
4. The settlement of consequences of contract cancellation related to moral rights shall be prescribed by this Code and other relevant laws.
5. In case the contract cancellation has no grounds prescribed in Articles 423, 424, 425 and 426 of this Code, the party canceling the contract shall be determined to be the party in breach of the obligation and must perform the responsibility. due to failure to properly perform their obligations as prescribed in this Code and other relevant laws.
Article 428. Unilateral termination of contract performance
1. One party has the right to unilaterally terminate the contract performance and not have to pay compensation when the other party seriously violates the obligations in the contract or as agreed by the parties or provided for by law.
2. The party that unilaterally terminates the performance of the contract must immediately notify the other party of the termination of the contract. If the party fails to notify and causes damage, it must pay compensation.
3. When a contract is unilaterally terminated, the contract shall terminate from the time the other party receives the termination notice. The parties are not required to continue to perform their obligations, except for agreements on fines for violations, compensation for damage and agreements on dispute settlement. The party that has performed the obligation has the right to request the other party to pay the part of the obligation performed.
4. The party suffering damage due to the other party's failure to properly perform its contractual obligations shall be compensated.
5. In case the unilateral termination of contract performance has no grounds specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the party that unilaterally terminates the contract performance shall be determined to be the party in breach of the obligations and must perform civil obligations. accordance with the provisions of this Code and other relevant laws due to failure to properly perform the obligations in the contract.
Article 429. Statute of limitations for initiating lawsuits over contracts
The statute of limitations for initiating a lawsuit to request the Court to settle a contract dispute is 3 years from the date the person with the right to claim knows or ought to know that his/her lawful rights and interests have been infringed.
Chapter XVI
SOME COMMON CONTRACTS
Section 1. PROPERTY BUY AND SELL CONTRACT
Article 430. Property purchase and sale contract
A property sale and purchase contract is an agreement between parties whereby the seller transfers ownership of the property to the buyer and the buyer pays the seller.
Contracts on housing purchase and sale, house purchase and sale for other purposes shall comply with the provisions of this Code, the Law on Housing and other relevant laws.
Article 431. Objects of sale and purchase contracts
1. Any property specified in this Code may be the subject of a sale and purchase contract. Where according to the provisions of law, property is prohibited or restricted from being transferred, the property that is the subject of the sale and purchase contract must comply with such provisions.
2. The property for sale is owned by the seller or the seller has the right to sell.
Article 432. Quality of purchased and sold properties
1. The quality of the property to be purchased and sold shall be agreed upon by the parties.
2. Where the quality standards of the property have been announced or prescribed by a competent state agency, the agreement of the parties on the quality of the property must not be lower than the quality of the identified property. determined according to published standards or regulations of competent state agencies.
3. When the parties do not reach an agreement or the agreement is unclear on the quality of the properties for sale and purchase, the quality of the properties for sale and purchase shall be determined according to the quality standards of the announced properties and regulations of the Government. competent state agencies or according to industry standards.
In case there are no published quality standards of properties, regulations of competent state agencies and industry standards, the quality of properties for sale and purchase shall be determined according to common standards or according to standards. own standards suitable for the purpose of entering into a contract and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Protection of Consumer Rights.
Article 433. Price and payment method
1. The price and payment method shall be agreed upon by the parties or determined by a third party at the request of the parties. Where the law stipulates that prices and payment methods must comply with regulations of competent state agencies, the agreement of the parties must be consistent with such provisions.
2. If there is no agreement or the agreement is unclear on the price and payment method, the price shall be determined according to the market price, and the payment method shall be determined according to the custom at the place and time of entering into the contract. copper.
Article 434. Time limit for performance of sales contract
1. The time limit for performance of the sale and purchase contract shall be agreed upon by the parties. The seller must deliver the property to the buyer on time as agreed; The seller may only deliver the property before or after the time limit if the buyer agrees.
2. When the parties do not agree on the time limit for property delivery, the buyer has the right to request the seller to hand over the property and the seller also has the right to request the buyer to receive the property at any time, but must give each other a prior notice. reasonable time.
3. The buyer pays the purchase amount according to the agreed time. If the payment time is unknown or unclear, the buyer must pay immediately at the time of receipt of the purchased property or receipt of documents certifying the ownership of the property.
Article 435. Location of property delivery
The place of property delivery shall be agreed upon by the parties; if there is no agreement, the provisions of Clause 2, Article 277 of this Code shall apply.
Article 436. Mode of property delivery
1. The property shall be delivered by the method agreed upon by the parties; If there is no agreement, the property will be delivered by the seller once and directly to the buyer.
2. Where, as agreed, the seller delivers the property to the buyer in several installments but the seller fails to fulfill his obligations at a certain time, the buyer may cancel the part of the contract related to that breach. and claim damages.
Article 437. Liability due to wrong amount of property delivery
1. Where the seller delivers the property in a quantity higher than the agreed amount, the buyer has the right to receive or not to receive the excess; if received, they must pay for the excess at the price agreed upon in the contract, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the seller delivers less than the agreed quantity, the buyer has one of the following rights:
a) Receive the delivered part and set a time limit for the seller to communicate the missing part;
b) Receive the delivered part and claim compensation for damage;
c) Cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage if the breach causes the buyer to fail to achieve the purpose of entering into the contract.
Article 438. Liability due to asynchronous delivery of objects
1. In case the delivered object is not synchronized, making the use purpose of the object unattainable, the purchaser has one of the following rights:
a) Receive and request the seller to communicate the missing part or part, claim compensation for damage, and postpone payment of the part or part received until the item is delivered synchronously;
b) Cancel the contract and claim for damages.
2. In case the buyer has paid but has not yet received the item due to asynchronous delivery, he/she shall be entitled to pay interest on the paid amount at the interest rate agreed between the parties but must not exceed the interest rate specified in Clause 1. Article 468 of this Code; if there is no agreement, then comply with the provisions of Clause 2, Article 468 of this Code and request the seller to compensate for damage caused by asynchronous delivery of the object, from the time the contract must be performed until the object is received. synchronous delivery.
Article 439. Liability to deliver property of the wrong type
In case the delivered property is not of the right type, the buyer has one of the following rights:
1. Receive and pay at the price agreed upon by the parties.
2. Request for the delivery of property of the right type and compensation for damage.
3. Cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage if the delivery is not of the right type, causing the buyer to fail to achieve the purpose of entering into the contract.
In case the property consists of many types but the seller fails to deliver according to the agreement for one or several types, the buyer may cancel the part of the contract related to that type of property and demand compensation for damage.
Article 440. Obligation to pay
1. The buyer is obliged to pay the money according to the time limit, location and amount specified in the contract.
2. Where the parties only agree on the time limit for the delivery of the property, the time limit for payment shall also be determined corresponding to the time limit for the delivery of the property. If the parties do not agree on the time limit for delivery of the property and the time limit for payment, the buyer must pay the money at the time of receiving the property.
3. In case the buyer fails to properly perform the payment obligation, he/she must pay interest on the late payment amount as prescribed in Article 357 of this Code.
Article 441. Time to take risks
1. The seller bears the risk of the property before the property is delivered to the buyer, the buyer bears the risk to the property from the time of receipt of the property, unless otherwise agreed or provided for by law. other.
2. With respect to a property sale and purchase contract where the law stipulates that such property must be registered, the seller bears the risk until the registration procedure is completed. registration procedure, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 442. Transportation costs and costs related to the transfer of title
1. Transportation costs and expenses related to the transfer of ownership rights shall be agreed upon by the parties, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. If the parties do not reach an agreement or the agreement is unclear, the transportation costs and costs related to the transfer of ownership rights shall be determined according to the published costs and regulations of the competent authority. rights or industry standards.
3. In case there are no grounds for determination as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the transportation costs and expenses related to the transfer of ownership rights shall be determined according to normal standards or according to specific standards. suitable for the purpose of entering into the contract.
4. If the parties do not agree and the law does not provide for transportation costs and costs related to the transfer of ownership, the seller must bear the transportation costs to the place of delivery of the property and the costs regarding the transfer of ownership.
Article 443. Obligation to provide information and instructions on how to use it
The seller is obliged to provide the buyer with necessary information about the property for sale and instructions on how to use that property; if the seller fails to perform this obligation, the buyer has the right to require the seller to perform within a reasonable time; if the seller still fails to perform, causing the buyer to fail to achieve the purpose of entering into the contract, the buyer has the right to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.
Article 444. Guarantee of the buyer's ownership rights to the purchased and sold property
1. The seller is obliged to ensure that the ownership rights to the property sold to the buyer are not disputed by a third party.
2. In case the property is disputed by a third party, the seller must side with the purchaser to protect the buyer's interests; if the third party has the right to own part or all of the purchased and sold property, the buyer has the right to cancel the contract and request the seller to compensate for damage.
3. Where the purchaser knows or should know that the purchased or sold property is owned by a third party but still buys it, it must return the property to the owner and has no right to claim compensation for damage.
Article 445. Quality assurance of objects for sale and purchase
1. The seller must guarantee the use value or characteristics of the object for sale and purchase; If, after purchase, the buyer discovers a defect that depreciates or reduces the use value of the purchased object, it must immediately notify the seller when detecting the defect and has the right to request the seller to repair or exchange it. Defective objects take other objects, reduce prices and compensate for damage, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The seller must ensure that the items for sale conform to the description on the package, the trademark or the model selected by the buyer.
3. The seller is not responsible for the defects of the object in the following cases:
a) Defects that the purchaser knew or should have known at the time of purchase;
b) Auctioned objects, objects sold at second-hand shops;
c) Buyer is at fault causing defects of the object.
Article 446. Warranty obligations
The seller is obliged to provide a warranty for the purchased and sold items for a period of time, called the warranty period, if the warranty is agreed upon by the parties or provided for by law.
The warranty period is counted from the time the buyer is obliged to receive the item.
Article 447. Right to claim warranty
During the warranty period, if the buyer discovers a defect in the purchased or sold object, he/she has the right to request the seller to repair it free of charge, reduce the price, exchange the defective object for another object or return the object and get it back. money.
Article 448. Repair of objects within the warranty period
1. The seller must repair the object and ensure that the object meets the quality standards or has all the committed characteristics.
2. The seller bears the costs of repairing and transporting the object to the place of repair and from the place of repair to the place of residence or the head office of the buyer.
3. The buyer has the right to request the seller to complete the repair within the time limit agreed upon by the parties or a reasonable time; if the seller cannot repair or cannot complete the repair within that time limit, the buyer has the right to demand a discount, exchange the defective object for another or return the object and get a refund.
Article 449. Compensation for damage within the warranty period
1. In addition to requesting the implementation of warranty measures, the buyer has the right to request the seller to compensate for damage caused by technical defects of the object within the warranty period.
2. The seller is not required to compensate for damage if it proves that the damage occurred due to the fault of the buyer. The seller may reduce the amount of compensation for damage if the buyer fails to take necessary measures to prevent or limit damage.
Article 450. Buying and selling property rights
1. In case of purchase and sale of property rights, the seller must transfer papers and carry out procedures for transferring ownership to the purchaser, and the purchaser must pay the seller.
2. Where the property right is the right to claim a debt and the seller commits to ensure the debtor's solvency, the seller must be jointly responsible for payment, if the debtor fails to pay when due.
3. The time of transfer of ownership of a property right is the time when the buyer receives the papers on the ownership of such property or from the time of registration of the transfer of ownership, if so prescribed by law. .
Article 451. Property auction
Property can be auctioned according to the will of the owner or in accordance with the law. Property under common ownership to be auctioned must have the consent of all joint owners, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
The asset auction must ensure the principles of objectivity, publicity and transparency, ensure the legitimate rights and interests of the parties involved, and comply with the law on asset auction.
Article 452. Purchase after trial use
1. The parties may agree that the purchaser is allowed to try the purchased item for a period called the trial period. During the trial period, the buyer can answer to buy or not to buy; If the trial period expires and the buyer does not respond, it is considered to have accepted the purchase under the agreed conditions before receiving the trial item.
In case the parties do not reach an agreement or an unclear agreement on the trial term, this term shall be determined according to the custom of the transaction with the same object.
2. During the trial period, the item remains in the possession of the seller. The seller must bear all risks of the object, unless otherwise agreed. During the trial period, the seller may not sell, give, lease, exchange, mortgage or pledge the property until the buyer has responded.
3. In case the trial party replies not to buy, it must return the object to the seller and compensate the seller for damage, if it loses or damages the trial object. The Trial Party is not responsible for normal wear and tear caused by the trial and is not required to refund the profits resulting from the trial.
Article 453. Purchase with deferred payment or installment payment
1. The parties may agree on the purchaser's deferred payment or installment payment within a period after receiving the purchased property. The seller is entitled to retain ownership of the sold property until the buyer pays in full, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The purchase contract with deferred payment or installment payment must be made in writing. The buyer has the right to use the purchased property on deferred or amortized payment and must bear the risk during the use period, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 454. Redemption of sold property
1. The seller may agree with the buyer on the right to redeem the sold property after a period called the redemption period.
The time limit for redeeming the property shall be agreed upon by the parties; in the absence of agreement, the redemption period shall not exceed 01 year for movable property and 05 years for immovable property from the time of property handover, unless otherwise provided for by relevant laws. Within this period, the seller has the right to redeem at any time, but must notify the buyer in advance within a reasonable time. The redemption price is the market price at the time and place of redemption, unless otherwise agreed.
2. During the redemption period, the purchaser may not establish a transaction to transfer the ownership of the property to another entity and must bear the risks to the property, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 2. PROPERTY EXCHANGE CONTRACT
Article 455. Property exchange contract
1. Property exchange contract is an agreement between parties whereby the parties transfer property and transfer ownership of the property to each other.
2. Property exchange contracts must be made in writing, notarized, authenticated or registered, if so required by law.
3. In case one party exchanges property that is not under his/her ownership or is not authorized by the owner, the other party has the right to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.
4. Each party is considered as the seller for the property delivered to the other party and the buyer for the property received. The provisions on sale and purchase contracts from Articles 430 to Article 439, from Articles 441 to Article 449 and Article 454 of this Code also apply to property exchange contracts.
Article 456. Payment of difference
If there is a difference in value between the exchanged properties, the parties must pay each other for such difference, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
Section 3. CONTRACT FOR GIFT FOR PROPERTY
Article 457. Property donation contract
Property donation contract is an agreement between parties whereby the donor hands over his/her property and transfers ownership rights to the donor without asking for compensation, the donor agrees to receive.
Article 458. Gift of movable property
1. A contract for donation of movable property takes effect from the time the recipient receives the property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. With regard to movable property which the law provides for registration of ownership rights, the donation contract shall take effect from the time of registration.
Article 459. Gift of real estate
1. Gifts of real estate must be made in writing, notarized, authenticated or registered, if the real estate is subject to registration of ownership as prescribed by law.
2. The real estate donation contract takes effect from the time of registration; if the real estate is not subject to registration of ownership, the donation contract shall take effect from the time of property transfer.
Article 460. Liability for intentionally giving property not under one's ownership
In case the donor intentionally donates property that is not under his/her ownership but the donor does not know or cannot know about it, the donor must pay expenses to increase the value of the property for the donor. awarded when the owner takes back the property.
Article 461. Disability notice of donated property
The donor is obligated to notify the recipient of the defect of the donated property. In case the donor indicates that the property is defective without notifying it, he/she shall be responsible for compensating for damage caused to the donor; if the donor does not know about the defects of the donated property, it is not responsible for compensation for damage.
Article 462. Conditional donation of property
1. The donor may require the donor to perform one or more obligations before or after the donation. Conditions of donation must not violate the prohibition of the law, not contrary to social ethics.
2. In case an obligation must be performed before the gift is given, if the donor has fulfilled the obligation but the donor does not deliver the property, the donor must pay the obligation that the giftee has performed.
3. In case an obligation is required to be performed after the donation, but the donor fails to perform, the donor has the right to reclaim the property and demand compensation for damage.
Section 4. PROPERTY LOAN CONTRACT
Article 463. Property loan contract
Property loan contract is an agreement between parties whereby the lender delivers the property to the borrower; when it is due, the borrower must return to the lender property of the same type in the correct quantity and quality and only pay interest if so agreed or prescribed by law.
Article 464. Ownership of borrowed property
The borrower becomes the owner of the borrowed asset from the time of receipt of that asset.
Article 465. Obligations of the lender
1. Deliver assets to the borrower in full, with the right quality and quantity at the agreed time and place.
2. To compensate the borrower for damage, if the lender knows that the property is not of good quality without notifying the borrower, unless the borrower knows and still accepts the property.
3. The borrower must not be required to return the property before the due date, except for the cases specified in Article 470 of this Code or other relevant laws.
Article 466. Borrower's debt repayment obligation
1. Borrowers of money assets must pay in full when due; if the property is an object, it must return the object of the same type in the correct quantity and quality, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the borrower is unable to repay the object, it may pay in cash according to the value of the borrowed object at the place and time of repayment, if agreed by the lender.
3. Debt payment place is the place of residence or place of head office of the lender, unless otherwise agreed.
4. In case of an interest-free loan, but when due, the borrower fails to pay the debt or fails to pay it fully, the lender has the right to request interest payment at the interest rate specified in Clause 2, Article 468 of this Code on the amount of late payment corresponds to the time of late payment, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
5. In case of a loan with interest but when due, the borrower does not pay or does not pay in full, the borrower must pay interest as follows:
a) Interest on the principal at the interest rate agreed upon in the contract corresponding to the loan term but not yet paid; In case of late payment, interest must also be paid at the rate specified in Clause 2, Article 468 of this Code;
b) Interest on unpaid overdue principal equals 150% of the loan interest rate according to the contract corresponding to the period of late payment, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 467. Use of borrowed property
The parties can agree that the borrowed property must be used for the right purpose of the loan. The lender has the right to inspect the use of the property and has the right to reclaim the borrowed property before the due date if the borrower still uses the property against the purpose of warning.
Article 468. Interest rate
1. The loan interest rate shall be agreed upon by the parties.
If the parties have an agreement on the interest rate, the agreed interest rate must not exceed 20%/year of the loan amount, unless otherwise provided for by other relevant laws. Based on the actual situation and at the proposal of the Government, the National Assembly Standing Committee shall decide to adjust the above interest rates and report to the National Assembly at the nearest meeting.
In case the agreed interest rate exceeds the limit interest rate specified in this Clause, the excess interest rate will not take effect.
2. In case the parties have an agreement on interest payment, but do not specify the interest rate and there is a dispute over the interest rate, the interest rate shall be determined equal to 50% of the limit interest rate specified in Clause 1 of this Article at debt payment time.
Article 469. Performance of demand loan contracts
1. For a loan contract with no term and no interest, the lender has the right to reclaim the property and the borrower also has the right to repay the debt at any time, but must notify each other in advance a reasonable time. , unless otherwise agreed.
2. With respect to a loan contract with a term and interest, the lender has the right to reclaim the property at any time, but must notify the borrower a reasonable time in advance and be paid interest until the time of receiving the loan back. The borrower also has the right to return the property at any time and only pay interest until the time of repayment, but must also give the lender a reasonable time in advance.
Article 470. Performance of term loan contracts
1. For a term loan contract with no interest, the borrower has the right to return the property at any time, but must notify the lender a reasonable time in advance, and the lender may only claim it back. assets prior to maturity, if agreed to by the borrower.
2. With respect to a loan contract with a term and interest, the borrower has the right to return the property before the maturity date, but must pay the entire interest according to the term, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
Article 471. Surname, hui, bieu, ward
1. Surname, hui, bieu, ward (hereinafter collectively referred to as surname) is a customary form of property transaction on the basis of an agreement between a group of people gathering together to determine the number of people, time, the amount of money or other property, the mode of contribution and receipt and the rights and obligations of the members.
2. The organization of surnames for the purpose of mutual assistance among the people shall comply with the provisions of law.
3. If the organization is profitable, the interest rate must comply with the provisions of this Code.
4. It is strictly forbidden to organize them in the form of usury.
Section 5. PROPERTY LEASE CONTRACT
Subsection 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ON PROPERTY LEASE CONTRACT
Article 472. Property lease contract
Property lease contract is an agreement between parties whereby the lessor delivers the property to the lessee for use for a period of time, the lessee must pay rent.
House rental contracts, house rental contracts for other purposes shall comply with the provisions of this Code, the Law on Housing and other relevant laws.
Article 473. Rent
1. The rental price shall be agreed upon by the parties or determined by a third party at the request of the parties, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. If there is no agreement or the agreement is unclear, the rental price is determined according to the market price at the place and time of signing the lease contract.
Article 474. Lease term
1. The lease term shall be agreed upon by the parties; if there is no agreement, it is determined according to the rental purpose.
2. Where the parties do not agree on the lease term and the lease term cannot be determined according to the rental purpose, each party has the right to terminate the contract at any time, but must notify the other party in advance. reasonable time.
Article 475. Sub-lease
The lessee has the right to sublease the property it has rented, if the lessor agrees.
Article 476. Delivery of leased property
1. The lessor must deliver the property to the lessee in the correct quantity, quality, type, condition, time and place as agreed upon and provide necessary information on the use of such property.
2. In case the lessor is late in delivering the property, the lessee may extend the time to deliver the property or cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage; if the leased property is not of the agreed quality, the lessee has the right to request the lessor to repair, reduce the rental price or cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.
Article 477. Obligation to guarantee the use value of the leased property
1. The lessor must ensure that the leased property is in the agreed-upon condition, suitable for the rental purpose during the lease term; must repair damage and defects of the leased property, except for minor damage which according to the lessee's custom, must be repaired by himself.
2. In case the leased property has its use value reduced through no fault of the lessee, the lessee has the right to request the lessor to take one or several of the following measures:
a) Repair of property;
b) Reduced rental prices;
c) Exchange of other property or unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract and claim compensation for damage, if the leased property has defects that are not known to the lessee or the leased property cannot be repaired for which the purpose of the lease is not achieved.
3. Where the lessor has been notified but fails to repair or repair it in time, the lessee has the right to repair the leased property by himself at a reasonable cost, but must notify the lessor and have the right to request The lessor pays the repair costs.
Article 478. Obligation to secure the right to use the property for the lessee
1. The lessor must ensure a stable right to use the property for the lessee.
2. In case there is a dispute over ownership of the leased property but the lessee is not allowed to use the property stably, the lessee has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
Article 479. Obligation to preserve leased property
1. The lessee must preserve the leased property, maintain it and make minor repairs; If lost or damaged, compensation must be made.
The lessee is not responsible for natural wear and tear resulting from the use of the leased property.
2. The lessee may repair and increase the value of the leased property, if the lessor agrees and has the right to request the lessor to pay reasonable expenses.
Article 480. Obligation to use the leased property for the right use and purpose
1. The lessee must use the leased property in accordance with its utility and for the agreed purpose.
2. Where the lessee uses the property for improper purposes or for improper use, the lessor has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
Article 481. Rent payment
1. The lessee must pay the rent in full on the agreed time limit; if there is no agreement on the rental payment term, the rental payment term shall be determined according to the custom of the place of payment; if the customary period cannot be determined, the lessee must pay when returning the leased property.
2. Where the parties agree on the payment of rent by term, the lessor has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract if the lessee fails to pay for three consecutive periods, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise. otherwise provided by law.
Article 482. Return of leased property
1. The lessee must return the leased property in the same condition as when received, minus natural wear and tear or in the same condition as agreed upon; if the value of the leased property is reduced compared to the condition when received, the lessor has the right to claim compensation for damage, except for natural wear and tear.
2. In case the leased property is movable, the place to return the leased property is the residence or the head office of the lessor, unless otherwise agreed.
3. In case the leased property is cattle, the lessee must return the rented cattle and also the cattle born during the lease period, unless otherwise agreed. The lessor must pay the cost of taking care of the livestock born to the lessee.
4. When the lessee is late to pay the leased property, the lessor has the right to request the lessee to return the leased property, pay the rent during the late payment period and pay compensation for damage; the lessee must pay a penalty for late payment of the leased property, if so agreed.
5. The lessee must bear the risks to the leased property during the late payment period.
Subsection 2. SECURITIES LEASE CONTRACT
Article 483. Property contract
A package lease contract is an agreement between parties whereby the package lessor hands over the property to the package lessee to exploit its utility, enjoy the benefits and profits obtained from the package lease asset, and the package lessee. obligated to pay the rent.
Article 484. Subjects of contract of hire
The subject matter of a contract of lease may be untapped land, forest, water surface, livestock, production and business establishments, other means of production, and necessary equipment for exploitation and enjoyment. yields and profits, unless otherwise provided for by law.
Article 485. Term of contract lease
The contract lease term shall be agreed upon by the parties. In case there is no agreement or there is an agreement but it is not clear, the contract lease term shall be determined according to the production and business cycle in accordance with the nature of the contract lessee.
Article 486. Package rental price
The contract rental price shall be agreed upon by the parties; if the contract is hired through bidding, the package rental price is the price determined according to the bidding results.
Article 487. Assignment of leased assets
When handing over the package lease property, the parties must make a record to assess the condition of the package lease property and determine the value of the package lease property.
In case the parties cannot determine the value, a third person shall be invited to determine the value and it must be made in writing.
Article 488. Payment of package rent and payment method
1. Contract rent can be in kind, in money or by performing a job.
2. The package lessee must pay the package rent in full, even if it does not exploit the utility of the contract leased property.
3. When entering into a package lease contract, the parties may agree on conditions for the reduction of the package rent; if the yield or income is lost at least one third due to force majeure events, the package lessee has the right to request a reduction or exemption from the package rent, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where the contract lessee has to pay in kind according to the season or according to the cycle of exploiting the utility of the contracted asset, it must be paid at the end of the season or the end of the exploitation cycle, unless otherwise agreed. other agreement.
5. Where the contract hirer has to perform a job, it must properly perform that job.
6. The time limit for paying the package rent shall be agreed upon by the parties, if the parties do not agree, the package lessee must pay on the last day of each month; In the case of a contract of employment according to a production or business cycle, payment must be made at the latest at the end of such production or business cycle.
Article 489. Exploitation of leased assets
The package lessee must exploit the package lease property for the agreed purpose and periodically report to the lessee about the condition of the property and the exploitation of the property; if the contract lessor requests or needs to make an unexpected report, the contract lessor must promptly report it. When the package lessor exploits the utility of the package lease property for improper purposes, the package lessor has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
Article 490. Preservation, maintenance and disposition of contracted assets
1. During the term of exploitation of the package lease property, the contract lessee must preserve and maintain the contracted property and its attached equipment at its own expense, unless otherwise agreed upon; if the lessee loses, damages or devalues or reduces the value of the leased asset, it must compensate for the damage. The lessee is not responsible for natural wear and tear resulting from the use of the leased asset.
2. The contract lessee may repair or renovate the package leased property by himself, if so agreed upon, and must preserve the value of the contracted property.
The package lessor must pay to the package lessee reasonable expenses for repairing and renovating the contracted property as agreed.
3. The lessor may not sub-lease, unless otherwise agreed by the lessor.
Article 491. Enjoying yields and suffering damage from contracted cattle
During the term of contract of cattle, the lessee is entitled to half of the cattle born and must bear half of the damage to the contracted cattle due to force majeure events, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 492. Unilateral termination of contract performance
1. In case one party unilaterally terminates the performance of the contract, it must notify the other party in advance a reasonable time; if the contract is leased on a seasonal basis or according to the exploitation cycle, the notice period must be suitable to the season or exploitation cycle.
2. In case the contract lessee violates an obligation, the exploitation of the package lessee is the sole source of life of the package lessee and the continuation of the package lease does not seriously affect the interests of the package lessor, the lessee shall the contract lessor may not unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract; the contract lessor must commit to the lessor not to continue to breach the contract.
Article 493. Return of contracted property
When terminating the package lease contract, the package lessee must return the package lease asset in a condition consistent with the agreed level of depreciation; if the value of the leased property is lost or reduced, it must compensate for the damage.
Section 6. PROPERTY LEASE CONTRACT
Article 494. Property loan contract
A property loan contract is an agreement between parties whereby the lender hands over the property to the borrower for use within a period without having to pay, and the borrower must return the property at the end of the loan term. or the borrowing purpose has been achieved.
Article 495. Objects of property loan contracts
Any non-consumable property can be the subject of a loan agreement.
Article 496. Obligations of the borrower
1. To keep and preserve the borrowed property, not to arbitrarily change the condition of the property; If the property is damaged normally, it must be repaired.
2. Do not lend it to another person without the consent of the lender.
3. Return the borrowed property on time; if there is no agreement on the time limit for returning the property, the borrower must return the property as soon as the borrowing purpose has been achieved.
4. Compensate for damage, if you lose or damage the borrowed property.
5. The borrower must bear the risk of the borrowed property during the period of late payment.
Article 497. Rights of the borrower
1. To use the borrowed property in accordance with its utility and for the agreed purpose.
2. To request the lender to pay reasonable expenses for repairing or increasing the value of the borrowed property, if so agreed.
3. Not responsible for the natural wear and tear of the borrowed property.
Article 498. Obligations of the property lender
1. Provide necessary information about the use of the property and its defects, if any.
2. Pay the borrower for repair costs and expenses for increasing the value of the property, if there is an agreement.
3. To compensate the borrower for damage if he or she knows the property has defects but fails to notify the borrower, leading to damage to the borrower, except for defects that the borrower knows or should know.
Article 499. Rights of the property lender
1. Claim the property right after the borrower achieves the purpose if there is no agreement on the loan term; if the lender has an unexpected and urgent need to use the lent property, it may reclaim such property even though the borrower has not yet achieved the purpose, but must give a reasonable notice in advance.
2. Claim the property back when the borrower uses it for improper purposes, uses, or in the manner agreed upon, or lends it to another person without the lender's consent.
3. Claim compensation for property damage caused by the borrower.
Section 7. CONTRACT ON LAND USE RIGHTS
Article 500. Contracts on land use rights
A land use right contract is an agreement between parties whereby a land user converts, transfers, leases, subleases, donates, mortgages, contributes capital to the land use right or exercises the right to use land. otherwise as prescribed by the Land Law for the other party; the other party performs the rights and obligations under the contract with the land user.
Article 501. Contents of the contract on land use rights
1. General provisions on contracts and relevant contents of common contracts in this Code shall also apply to contracts on land use rights, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. The contents of a contract on land use rights must not contravene regulations on land use purposes, duration, land use master plan and plan, and other rights and obligations as prescribed by law. land law and other relevant laws.
Article 502. Forms and procedures for performance of contracts on land use rights
1. A contract on land use rights must be made in writing in a form consistent with the provisions of this Code, the law on land and other relevant laws.
2. The performance of a contract on land use rights must comply with the order and procedures prescribed by the land law and other relevant laws.
Article 503. Effect of land use right transfer
The transfer of land use rights takes effect from the time of registration in accordance with the Land Law.
Section 8. COOPERATION CONTRACT
Article 504. Cooperation contract
1. A cooperation contract is an agreement between individuals and legal entities on jointly contributing property and efforts to perform certain jobs, benefiting from and sharing responsibility.
2. The cooperation contract must be made in writing.
Article 505. Contents of cooperation contracts
The cooperation contract has the following principal contents:
1. Purpose and term of cooperation;
2. Full name, place of residence of the individual; name and head office of the legal person;
3. Contributing property, if any;
4. Contribution by labor, if any;
5. Method of distribution of yields and profits;
6. Rights and obligations of cooperative members;
7. Rights and obligations of the representative, if any;
8. Conditions for members' participation in and withdrawal of cooperation contracts, if any;
9. Conditions for termination of cooperation.
Article 506. Common property of cooperative members
1. Property contributed and jointly created by members and other property as prescribed by law is common property according to the part of cooperative members.
In case there is an agreement on money contribution but the cooperation member is late to perform, he/she shall be responsible for paying interest on the late payment amount as prescribed in Article 357 of this Code and must pay compensation for damage.
2. The disposition of property that is the right to use land, houses, production workshops and other means of production must be agreed in writing by all members; The disposition of other property shall be decided by the representatives of the members, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Not to divide common property before terminating the cooperation contract, unless agreed by all cooperative members.
The division of common property specified in this Clause does not change or terminate the rights and obligations established and performed before the time when the property is divided.
Article 507. Rights and obligations of cooperative members
1. To enjoy yields and profits from cooperative activities.
2. Participating in deciding issues related to the performance of cooperation contracts, supervising cooperation activities.
3. Compensate for damage to other cooperative members caused by their fault.
4. To perform other rights and obligations under the contract.
Article 508. Establishment and performance of civil transactions
1. In case the cooperative members appoint a representative, this person shall be the representative in establishing and performing civil transactions.
2. If the cooperative members do not appoint a representative, the cooperative members must jointly participate in the establishment and performance of civil transactions, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Civil transactions established and performed by the subjects specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, giving rise to rights and obligations of all cooperative members.
Article 509. Civil liability of cooperative members
The cooperative members bear common civil liability by common property; if the common property is not enough to perform a common obligation, a cooperative member shall be liable with his/her own property in proportion to his/her contribution, unless otherwise provided for by the cooperation contract or law.
Article 510. Withdrawal from cooperation contracts
1. A member has the right to withdraw from the cooperation contract in the following cases:
a) According to the conditions agreed in the cooperation contract;
b) Having a good reason and the consent of more than half of the total number of cooperative members.
2. A member who withdraws from the cooperation contract has the right to request the return of the contributed property, to share the property in the common property, and to pay the obligations as agreed. In case the division of property in kind affects cooperation activities, the property shall be valued in cash for division.
The withdrawal from the cooperation contract does not terminate the rights and obligations of this person established and performed before the time of withdrawal from the cooperation contract.
3. If a member withdraws from a cooperation contract that does not fall into the cases specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the member who withdraws from the contract shall be determined to be a breach of the contract and must perform civil responsibilities in accordance with regulations of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. this law and other relevant laws.
Article 511. Accession to cooperation contracts
Unless otherwise provided in the cooperation contract, an individual or legal entity shall become a new member of the contract if it is agreed by more than half of the total number of cooperative members.
Article 512. Termination of cooperation contracts
1. A cooperation contract is terminated in the following cases:
a) According to the agreement of the cooperative members;
b) The time limit stated in the cooperation contract expires;
c) The cooperation purpose has been achieved;
d) According to a decision of a competent state agency;
dd) Other cases as prescribed by this Code and other relevant laws.
2. Upon termination of the cooperation contract, the debts arising from the contract must be paid; if the common property is not enough to pay the debt, the private property of the cooperative members must be taken for payment according to the provisions of Article 509 of this Code.
In case the debts have been paid off but the common property is still there, it shall be divided among the cooperative members in proportion to each person's contribution, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 9. SERVICE CONTRACT
Article 513. Service contract
Service contract is an agreement between parties whereby the service provider performs work for the service user, the service user must pay for the service provider.
Article 514. Subjects of service contracts
The object of the service contract is the work that can be done, does not violate the prohibition of the law, does not violate social ethics.
Article 515. Obligations of service users
1. Provide the service provider with information, documents and necessary means to perform the work, if there is an agreement or the performance of the work requires.
2. Pay for services to service providers as agreed.
Article 516. Rights of service users
1. Request the service provider to perform the work in accordance with the quality, quantity, time limit, location and other agreement.
2. In case the service provider seriously violates the obligation, the service user has the right to unilaterally terminate the contract performance and demand compensation for damage.
Article 517. Obligations of service providers
1. To perform the work in accordance with the quality, quantity, deadline, location and other agreement.
2. Do not assign other people to perform the work without the consent of the service user.
3. To preserve and return to the service user the documents and means assigned after completing the work.
4. Immediately notify the service user that the information and documents are incomplete or the means are not of good quality to complete the work.
5. Keep confidential information that they know during the performance of the job, if so agreed or prescribed by law.
6. Compensate for damage to service users, if they lose or damage assigned documents or means or disclose confidential information.
Article 518. Rights of service providers
1. Request the service user to provide information, documents and means to perform the work.
2. To change service conditions for the benefit of the service user without necessarily waiting for the opinion of the service user, if waiting for comments will cause damage to the service user, but must immediately notify the service user.
3. Request the service user to pay for the service.
Article 519. Payment for services
1. Service users must pay for services as agreed.
2. When entering into a contract, if there is no agreement on the service price, the method of service price determination and no other instructions on the service price, the service price shall be determined based on the market price. field of services of the same type at the time and place of entering into the contract.
3. The service user must pay for the service at the job site upon completion of the service, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where the service provided is not as agreed upon or the work is not completed on time, the service user has the right to reduce the service fee and claim compensation for damage.
Article 520. Unilateral termination of service contract performance
1. Where the continuation of the job performance is not beneficial to the service user, the service user has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract, but must notify the service provider in advance. reasonable time; the service user must pay wages according to the part of the service that the service provider has performed and compensate for damage.
2. In case the service user seriously violates the obligations, the service provider has the right to unilaterally terminate the contract performance and demand compensation for damage.
Article 521. Continuation of service contracts
After the expiration of the time limit for performing the work under the service contract, but the work has not been completed and the service provider continues to perform the work, the service user knows but does not object, the service contract naturally continue to perform according to the agreed content until the work is completed.
Section 10. CONTRACT OF TRANSPORTATION
Subsection 1. CONTRACT FOR TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS ONLY
Article 522. Passenger carriage contract
Contract of carriage of passengers is an agreement between parties whereby the carrier transports passengers and baggage to the agreed destination, and the passenger must pay the freight.
Article 523. Form of contract for the carriage of passengers
1. A contract for the carriage of passengers may be made in writing, orally or established by specific acts.
2. Tickets are evidence of the conclusion of a contract of carriage of passengers between the parties.
Article 524. Obligations of the carrier
1. Carrying passengers from the place of departure to the right place, arriving on time, by the agreed vehicle safely, according to the route; ensure enough room for passengers and do not exceed the tonnage.
2. Buy civil liability insurance for passengers in accordance with the law.
3. Ensure the departure time has been announced or agreed.
4. Carrying luggage and returning it to the passenger or person entitled to receive the luggage at the agreed place according to the time and route.
5. Refund to passengers for transportation charges as agreed or prescribed by law.
Article 525. Rights of the carrier
1. To request passengers to pay in full the freight charges for passenger transportation, and for the carriage of carry-on luggage in excess of the prescribed amount.
2. Refuse to carry passengers in the following cases:
a) The passenger fails to comply with the carrier's regulations or commits acts of disturbing public order, obstructing the carrier's work, threatening the life, health, or property of others or committing acts of violence against the carrier. other violations do not ensure safety in the journey; in this case, the passenger is not entitled to a refund of the freight and shall be subject to a penalty for violation, if so provided by the carriage regulations;
b) Due to the health condition of the passenger, it becomes clear to the carrier that the carriage will cause danger to the passenger or to others during the journey;
c) To prevent disease from spreading.
Article 526. Obligations of passengers
1. Pay full freight for passenger transportation, freight for baggage in excess of the prescribed level, and self-preserve carry-on luggage.
2. Be present at the starting point at the agreed time.
3. Respect and strictly abide by the regulations of the carrier and other regulations on traffic safety assurance.
Article 527. Passengers' rights
1. Request to be transported by the correct means of transport and the value according to the freight with the agreed route.
2. To be exempted from freight charges for checked baggage and hand luggage within the limits agreed upon or prescribed by law.
3. Claim the payment of costs incurred or compensate for damage, if the carrier is at fault for not transporting on time, to the agreed place.
4. Get back all or part of the freight in the case specified at Points b and c, Clause 2, Article 525 of this Code and other cases prescribed by law or as agreed.
5. Receive luggage at the agreed location according to the correct time and route.
6. Request to stop the journey within the time limit and according to the procedures prescribed by law.
Article 528. Liability to compensate for damage
1. In case the life, health and luggage of passengers are damaged, the carrier must compensate according to the provisions of law.
2. The carrier is not required to compensate for loss of life, health and luggage of the passenger if the damage is caused entirely by the fault of the passenger, unless otherwise provided for by law.
3. In case a passenger violates the agreed carriage conditions and regulations of the carriage, causing damage to the carrier or a third person, he/she must compensate.
Article 529. Unilateral termination of the performance of the passenger transport contract
1. The carrier has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract in the case specified in Clause 2, Article 525 of this Code.
2. Passengers have the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract in case the carrier violates the obligations specified in Clauses 1, 3 and 4, Article 524 of this Code.
Subsection 2. CONTRACTS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF PROPERTY
Article 530. Property transportation contract
A contract for the carriage of property is an agreement between the parties whereby the carrier is obliged to deliver the property to the agreed destination and deliver it to the person entitled to receive it. shipping fee payment.
Article 531. Form of contract for transportation of property
1. Property transportation contracts are concluded in writing, orally or established by specific acts.
2. The bill of lading or other equivalent transport document is evidence of the conclusion of the contract between the parties.
Article 532. Delivery of property to the carrier
1. The shipping hirer is obliged to deliver the property to the carrier on time, at the place and pack it according to the agreed specifications; bear the cost of loading and unloading the property on the means of transport, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the lessee delivers the property on time and at the agreed location, the carrier must pay the costs of waiting and the money for transporting the property to the place agreed upon in the contract to the carrier.
In case the carrier is late to receive the property at the agreed place, it must bear the costs incurred due to the delay in receiving.
Article 533. Shipping charges
1. The freight rates shall be agreed upon by the parties; If the law stipulates a freight rate, such freight rate shall apply.
2. The shipping hirer must pay the full freight after the property is loaded onto the means of transport, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 534. Obligations of the carrier
1. To ensure adequate and safe transportation of property to the designated destination, on time.
2. Hand over the property to the person entitled to receive it.
3. Bear the costs related to the transportation of the property, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Buy civil liability insurance as prescribed by law.
5. Compensation for damage to the transport hirer in case the carrier loses or damages the property, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
Article 535. Rights of the carrier
1. Check the authenticity of the property, the bill of lading or other equivalent transport document.
2. Refuse to transport property that is not in accordance with the type of property agreed upon in the contract.
3. Request the shipping hirer to pay the full freight on time.
4. Refuse to transport assets banned from transactions, properties of dangerous or toxic nature, if the carrier knows or must know.
Article 536. Obligations of the shipping hirer
1. Pay full freight to the carrier according to the agreed time and method.
2. Provide necessary information related to the transported property to ensure the safety of the transported property.
3. Look after the property in transit, if agreed. In case the lessee takes care of the property but the property is lost or damaged, no compensation will be given.
Article 537. Rights of the shipping hirer
1. Request the carrier to transport the property to the agreed place and time.
2. Directly or appoint a third person to receive the rented property back.
Article 538. Transfer of property to the receiver of the property
1. The receiver of the property may be the lessee or the third person appointed by the lessee to receive the property.
2. The carrier must deliver the property in full, on time and at the agreed place to the receiver of the property.
3. In case the property has been delivered to the place of delivery of the property on time but there is no receiver of the property, the carrier may deposit such property at the place of deposit and keep it and must immediately notify the lessee. or a third person appointed by the shipping hirer to receive the property. The shipping hirer or a third person designated by the carrier to receive the property shall bear reasonable costs arising from the depository of the property.
The obligation to deliver the property is fulfilled when the property has been deposited and the lessee or a third person designated by the carrier to receive the property has been notified of the deposit.
Article 539. Obligations of the property recipient
1. Present to the carrier a bill of lading or other equivalent transport document and receive the property on time and at the agreed place.
2. Bear the costs of loading and unloading the transported property, unless otherwise agreed upon or otherwise provided for by law.
3. To pay reasonable expenses incurred due to the delay in receiving the property.
4. In case the receiver of the property is a third person appointed by the shipping hirer, it must notify the shipping hirer of the receipt of the property and other necessary information at the request of the shipping hirer.
Article 540. Rights of the property recipient
1. Check the quantity and quality of assets being shipped.
2. Get the property shipped to.
3. Request the carrier to pay reasonable costs incurred due to waiting for the receipt of the property if the carrier is late in delivering.
4. Request the carrier to compensate for the loss or damage of the property.
Article 541. Liability to compensate for damage
1. The carrier must compensate the shipping hirer for damage if the property is lost or damaged, except for the case specified in Clause 3, Article 536 of this Code.
2. The shipping hirer must compensate the carrier and the third party for damage caused by the transport property being dangerous or toxic without measures to pack and ensure safety in the process. transport.
3. In case of force majeure resulting in the loss, damage or destruction of the transported property, the carrier shall not be liable for compensation for damage, unless otherwise agreed upon or by law. The law provides otherwise.
Section 11. PROCESSING CONTRACT
Article 542. Processing contracts
Processing contract is an agreement between parties whereby the processor performs work to create products at the request of the outsourcing party, the outsourcing party accepts the product and pays wages.
Article 543. Objects of processing contracts
The subject matter of a processing contract is an object that is predetermined according to a form, according to a standard agreed upon by the parties or provided for by law.
Article 544. Obligations of the ordering party
1. To supply raw materials in accordance with the agreed quantity, quality, time limit and location to the processing recipient; provide necessary documents related to the processing.
2. Instruct the processor to perform the contract.
3. Pay wages according to the agreement.
Article 545. Rights of the ordering party
1. Receive processed products according to the agreed quantity, quality, method, time limit and place.
2. Unilaterally terminate the contract performance and demand compensation for damage when the processing party seriously violates the contract.
3. In case the product does not meet the quality standards and the processing party agrees to receive the product and requests repair, but the processing party cannot repair it within the agreed time limit, the processor has the right to cancel the product. contract and claim for damages.
Article 546. Obligations of the processing party
1. Preservation of raw materials provided by the ordering party.
2. Notify the ordering party to exchange for other raw materials, if the quality of the raw materials is not guaranteed; refuse to perform the processing, if it is known or must be known that the use of materials may create products hazardous to society.
3. Deliver products to the ordering party in the right quantity, quality, method, time limit and place as agreed.
4. Keep confidential information about the processing process and products created.
5. To be responsible for the quality of the products, except for the case that the products do not meet the quality standards due to the raw materials provided by the ordering party or the unreasonable instructions of the processing party.
6. Return the remaining materials to the ordering party after completing the contract.
Article 547. Rights of the processor
1. To request the ordering party to deliver materials with the agreed quality, quantity, time limit and location.
2. Refuse unreasonable instructions of the ordering party during the performance of the contract, if it is found that such instructions may reduce product quality, but must immediately notify the ordering party.
3. To request the outsourcing party to pay full wages according to the agreed time limit and method.
Article 548. Liability to bear risks
Until the product is delivered to the ordering party, the party who is the owner of the material shall bear the risk of the material or the product made from such material, unless otherwise agreed. other.
When the processor is late to receive the product, it must bear the risk during the delay, even in the case that the product is made from the processor's materials, unless otherwise agreed.
When the processing party is late in delivering the product, but there is a risk to the processed product, it must compensate for the damage caused to the processor.
Article 549. Delivery and receipt of processed products
The processing party must deliver the products and the processor must receive the products on time and at the agreed place.
Article 550. Delay in delivery or receipt of processed products
1. In case the processing party is late to deliver the products, the processing party may extend the time limit; if after that time limit expires, the processor still has not completed the work, the processor has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
2. In case the processing party is late to receive the product, the processor may send the product at the place where the processor is kept and must immediately notify the order processing party. The obligation to deliver the product is completed when the agreed conditions are met and the ordering party has been notified. The ordering party must bear all costs arising from the deposit.
Article 551. Unilateral termination of performance of processing contracts
1. Each party has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the processing contract, if the continuation of the contract performance does not bring benefits to them, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law, but must notify the other party within a reasonable time.
2. The outsourcing party unilaterally terminating the performance of the contract must pay wages corresponding to the work performed, unless otherwise agreed. The processing recipient unilaterally terminates the performance of the contract shall not be paid remuneration, unless otherwise agreed.
3. The party that unilaterally terminates the performance of the contract and causes damage to the other party must compensate.
Article 552. Payment of wages
1. The processing party must pay the full remuneration at the time of receiving the products, unless otherwise agreed.
2. If there is no agreement on the wage rate, the average wage rate for the creation of products of the same type at the processing location and at the time of payment shall apply.
3. The outsourcing party has no right to reduce wages if the product does not meet the quality requirements due to the raw materials it has provided or because of its unreasonable instructions.
Article 553. Liquidation of raw materials
When the processing contract terminates, the processor must return the remaining raw materials to the processor, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 12. CONTRACTS FOR PROPERTY HOLDING
Article 554. Property depository contract
Contract of deposit and custody of property is an agreement between parties whereby the depositor receives the depositor's property for preservation and returns the same property to the sender when the contract term expires, the depositor must pay a fee. to the custodian, except in the case of unpaid deposit.
Article 555. Obligations of the property depositor
1. Upon handing over property, the custodian must immediately notify the custodian of the property's condition and take appropriate measures to preserve the deposited property; if the depositor fails to notify, but the deposited property is destroyed or damaged due to not being properly preserved, the depositor must bear it; If damage is caused, compensation must be made.
2. The remuneration must be paid in full, on time and by the agreed method.
Article 556. Rights of the depositor
1. Request to take back the property at any time, if the depository contract does not specify the term, but must notify the custodian within a reasonable time.
2. To claim compensation for damage, if the custodian loses or damages the deposited property, except for force majeure cases.
Article 557. Obligations of the property holder
1. Preserve the property as agreed, return the property to the sender in the same condition as when it was held.
2. To change the way of preserving property only if the change is necessary in order to better preserve such property, but must immediately notify the sender of the change.
3. To promptly notify the sender of the risk of damage or destruction of the property due to the nature of such property and request the sender to indicate the solution within a time limit; if the sender does not reply within that time limit, the holder has the right to take necessary measures to preserve it and request the sender to pay the costs.
4. Must compensate for damage, if lost or damaged the deposited property, except for force majeure cases.
Article 558. Rights of the property holder
1. To request the sender to pay the agreed remuneration.
2. To request the sender to pay reasonable expenses for preserving the property in case of unpaid deposit.
3. Request the sender to receive the property at any time, but must give the sender a reasonable time in advance in the case of indefinite custody.
4. Sell the deposited property which is in danger of being damaged or destroyed in order to ensure the interests of the depositor, notify the depositor of this fact and pay the depositor the proceeds from the sale of the property, after deducting expenses. reasonable to sell the property.
Article 559. Return of deposited property
1. The retainer must return the property received and yield if any, unless otherwise agreed.
The place to return the deposited property is the place of deposit; if the sender requests to return the property to another location, it must bear the costs of transportation to that place, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The custodian must return the property on time and only have the right to request the depositor to take back the property before the time limit, if there is a legitimate reason.
Article 560. Delay in delivery or receipt of property in custody
In case the custodian delays the delivery of the property, it is not allowed to require the depositor to pay wages and pay the costs of preservation from the time of delay in delivery and must bear the risks to the property during the delay in handing over the property. .
In case the sender is late to receive the property, it must pay the costs of preservation and remuneration to the receiver to keep the property during the time of delay.
Article 561. Payment of wages
1. The sender must pay the full remuneration when taking back the deposited property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. If the parties do not agree on the wage rate, the average wage rate at the place and time of payment shall apply.
3. When the depositor recovers the property ahead of time, it must still pay in full wages and pay necessary expenses arising from the keeper's obligation to return the property ahead of time, unless otherwise agreed.
4. When the custodian requests the depositor to take back the property before the time limit, the custodian shall not receive remuneration and must compensate the depositor for damage, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 13. AUTHORIZATION CONTRACT
Article 562. Authorization contract
An authorization contract is an agreement between parties, whereby the authorized party is obliged to perform work on behalf of the authorizing party, the authorizing party only has to pay remuneration if so agreed or prescribed by law.
Article 563. Authorization duration
The authorization period shall be agreed upon by the parties or prescribed by law; If there is no agreement and there is no law, the authorization contract is valid for 1 year from the date of establishment of the authorization.
Article 564. Re-authorization
1. The authorized party may re-authorize another person in the following cases:
a) Having the consent of the authorizing party;
b) Due to force majeure events, if re-authorization is not applied, the purpose of establishing and performing civil transactions for the benefit of the principal cannot be realized.
2. The re-authorization must not exceed the scope of the original authorization.
3. The form of the re-authorization contract must be consistent with the original form of authorization.
Article 565. Obligations of the authorized party
1. Perform work as authorized and notify the authorizing party about the performance of such work.
2. Notify the third party in the authorization relationship about the time limit and scope of authorization and the modification and supplementation of the authorization scope.
3. Preserve and preserve documents and means assigned to perform the authorization.
4. Keep confidential the information that you know while performing the authorization.
5. To hand over to the authorizing the property received and the benefits obtained during the performance of the authorization as agreed upon or prescribed by law.
6. Compensation for damage caused by breach of obligations specified in this Article.
Article 566. Rights of the authorized party
1. To request the authorizing party to provide necessary information, documents and means to perform the authorization work.
2. To be paid reasonable expenses that they have spent to perform the authorized work; remuneration, if so agreed.
Article 567. Obligations of the authorizing party
1. Provide necessary information, documents and means for the authorized party to perform the work.
2. Take responsibility for the commitments made by the authorized party within the scope of authorization.
3. To pay reasonable expenses that the authorized party has spent to perform the authorized work; remuneration to the authorized party, if there is an agreement on remuneration.
Article 568. Rights of the authorizing party
1. Request the authorized party to give full notice of the performance of the authorized work.
2. To request the authorized party to hand over assets and benefits obtained from the performance of the authorized work, unless otherwise agreed.
3. To be compensated for damage, if the authorized party violates the obligations specified in Article 565 of this Code.
Article 569. Unilateral termination of performance of the authorization contract
1. In case of authorization with remuneration, the principal has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract at any time, but must pay remuneration to the authorized party in proportion to the work performed by the authorized party. present and compensate for damage; if the authorization does not provide remuneration, the principal may terminate the performance of the contract at any time, but must notify the principal a reasonable time in advance.
The authorizing party must notify the third party in writing of the termination of the performance of the contract by the authorizing party; if not, the contract with the third party will still be valid, unless the third party knows or ought to know that the authorization contract has been terminated.
2. In case of authorization without remuneration, the authorized party has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract at any time, but must notify the principal of a reasonable time in advance; if the authorization has remuneration, the authorized party has the right to unilaterally terminate the performance of the contract at any time and must compensate the principal for damage, if any.
Chapter XVII
PROMISE OF AWARDS, PRINCIPLES WITH PRIZE
Article 570. Promise of reward
1. The person who has publicly promised the reward must pay the reward to the person who has performed the work at the request of the person who promised the reward.
2. The work promised to be rewarded must be specific, practicable, not violating the prohibition of the law, and not contrary to social ethics.
Article 571. Withdrawal of the promise of reward
Before the due date for the commencement of the work, the promiseor has the right to withdraw his promise. Withdrawal of a promissory note must be made in the manner and by the means by which the promise was announced.
Article 572. Rewards
1. In case a job that is promised a reward is performed by one person, when the job is completed, the person performing that job will receive a reward.
2. When a job that is promised a reward is performed by many people, but each person does it independently, the first person to complete it will receive a reward.
3. In case many people complete the promised job at the same time, the reward will be divided equally among those people.
4. In case many people collaborate to perform the promised work requested by the reward promiseer, each person will receive a portion of the reward corresponding to his/her contribution.
Article 573. Competition with prizes
1. The organization of cultural, artistic, sports, scientific, technical and other contests and other contests must not violate the prohibition of the law, nor violate social ethics.
2. Contest organizers must announce the contest conditions, points scale, prizes and reward levels of each prize.
Changes to the contest conditions must be made in the manner announced within a reasonable time prior to the competition.
3. The winner has the right to request the contest organizer to award the prize according to the announced amount.
Chapter XVIII
PERFORMANCE WITHOUT WOMEN AUTHORIZATION
Article 574. Performing work without authorization
Performing work without authorization is when a person has no obligation to perform the work but voluntarily performs such work for the benefit of the person whose work is performed when this person does not know or knows without reacting. opposite to.
Article 575. Obligation to perform work without authorization
1. Persons performing tasks without authorization are obliged to perform the work in accordance with their capabilities and conditions.
2. The person performing the work without authorization must perform the work as if it were his/her own job; if one knows or guesses the intention of the person who has the job, he/she must perform the work in accordance with that intention.
3. The person performing the work without authorization must notify the person having the job performed about the process and results of the job performance if so requested, except for the case where the person having the job is known or the person performing the job without authorization not knowing the person's place of residence or headquarters.
4. In case the person whose work is performed dies, if it is an individual or ceases to exist, if it is a legal entity, the person performing the work without authorization must continue to perform the work until the heir dies. or the representative of the person whose work is performed has taken over.
5. Where there is a legitimate reason that the person performing the work without authorization is unable to continue to perform the job, he/she must notify the person whose work is performed, his/her representative or relative, or You can ask someone else to do the work for you.
Article 576. Payment obligations of persons whose work is performed
1. The person whose work is performed must take over the work when the person performing the work without authorization shall hand over the work and pay reasonable expenses spent by the person performing the work without authorization to do so. perform the work, even if the work does not achieve the desired results.
2. The person whose work is performed must pay the person performing the work without authorization a remuneration when this person performs the job thoughtfully and beneficially to him, unless the person performing the work does not have the authority to do so. Authorization refused.
Article 577. Obligation to compensate for damage
1. When the person performing the work without authorization intentionally causes damage while performing the job, he/she must compensate for the damage to the person whose work is performed.
2. If the person performing the work without authorization unintentionally causes damage while performing the job, based on the circumstances of undertaking the work, that person may be entitled to a reduction in the compensation level.
Article 578. Termination of work without authorization
The performance of work without authorization terminates in the following cases:
1. At the request of the person whose work is performed.
2. The person whose work is performed, the successor or representative of the person whose work is performed, receives the job.
3. Persons performing jobs without authorization cannot continue to perform jobs as prescribed in Clause 5, Article 575 of this Code.
4. The person performing the work without authorization dies, if he is an individual, or ceases to exist, if he is a legal entity.
Chapter XIX
OBLIGATION TO REFUND BECAUSE OF OWNERSHIP, USE, PROPERTY WITHOUT LEGAL BASIS
Article 579. Obligation to return
1. A person possessing or using another person's property without a legal basis must return it to the owner or holder of other rights to such property; if the property owner or other right holder cannot be found, it must be handed over to a competent state agency, except for the case specified in Article 236 of this Code.
2. A person who benefits from property without a legal basis and causes damage to another person must return such benefit to the damage sufferer, except for the case specified in Article 236 of this Code.
Article 580. Returned property
1. The person possessing or using property without a legal basis must return the entire property that has been obtained.
2. If the returned property is a specific object, the exact same object must be returned; if that particular object is lost or damaged, it must be compensated in cash, unless otherwise agreed.
3. In case the returned property is an object of the same type, but it is lost or damaged, the object of the same type must be returned or compensated in cash, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Those who benefit from property without a legal basis must return such property gains to the damage sufferers in kind or in money.
Article 581. Obligation to return yields and profits
1. The possessor, the user, and the person who benefits from the property without a legal basis and in good faith must return the yield and income earned from the time of possession and use of the property. , benefiting from property without a legal basis.
2. The possessor, the user of the property, the person who benefits from the property without a legal basis but in good faith, must return the yield and income obtained from the time when such person knew or ought to have known the appropriation. Owning, using property, or benefiting from property has no legal basis, except for the case specified in Article 236 of this Code.
Article 582. Right to request a third party to refund
Where a property possessor or user without a legal basis has handed over the property to a third party, when the owner or holder of other property rights requests return, the third party be obliged to return such property, unless otherwise provided for by this Code; if such property has been paid in cash or with compensation, the third party has the right to demand compensation from the person who handed over the property to him.
Article 583. Payment obligations
Owners, holders of other property-related rights, and damage sufferers who are entitled to have their property returned must pay necessary expenses that the possessor, property user, or property beneficiary without has a legal basis but in good faith has been spent to preserve and increase the value of the property.
Chapter XX
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OUT-CONTRACT DAMAGE
Section 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 584. Grounds for arising liability for damage compensation
1. Those who commit acts of infringing upon the life, health, honor, dignity, reputation, property, other lawful rights and interests of others, and cause damage, must pay compensation, except for the case of the Ministry. This law and other relevant laws provide otherwise.
2. The person causing damage is not responsible for compensation for damage in case the damage is caused by force majeure events or is entirely due to the fault of the aggrieved party, unless otherwise agreed or provided for by law. other rule.
3. Where property causes damage, the owner or possessor of the property shall be responsible for compensating for the damage, except for cases of damage arising as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 585. Principles of compensation for damage
1. Actual damage must be fully and promptly compensated. The parties may agree on the level of compensation, the form of compensation in cash, in kind or the performance of a job, the mode of compensation once or many times, unless otherwise provided for by law.
2. The person responsible for compensation for damage may be entitled to a reduction in compensation if there is no fault or unintentional fault and the damage is too great compared to his or her economic ability.
3. When the compensation level is no longer consistent with reality, the aggrieved party or the damage-causing party has the right to request a court or other competent state agency to change the compensation level.
4. When the aggrieved party is at fault in causing damage, it is not entitled to compensation for the part of the damage caused by its fault.
5. The party whose rights and interests are infringed shall not be compensated if the damage occurs due to the failure to apply necessary and reasonable measures to prevent or limit damage to itself.
Article 586. Capacity of individuals to be responsible for compensation for damage
1. Persons aged full eighteen years or older who cause damage must compensate by themselves.
2. If a person under fifteen years of age causes damage and his/her father or mother remains, the father or mother must compensate for the entire damage; if the parent's property is not enough for compensation and the minor child causing the damage has his or her own property, such property shall be used to make compensation for the deficit, except for the case specified in Article 599 of this Code.
Persons aged between full fifteen and under eighteen years of age who cause damage must compensate with their property; if there is not enough property to compensate, the father or mother must compensate the missing part with their property.
3. A minor, a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity, or a person with difficulties in perception or control of the damage-causing act and has a guardian, such guardian may use the ward's property. for compensation; if the ward has no property or does not have enough property to compensate, the guardian must compensate with his/her property; If the guardian can prove that he is not at fault in the guardianship, he does not have to take his property to compensate.
Article 587. Compensation for damage caused by more than one person
In case more than one person causes damage together, those persons must jointly compensate the damage sufferer. The indemnification liability of each person who jointly causes damage is determined in proportion to the degree of fault of each person; if the degree of fault cannot be determined, they must compensate for the damage in equal parts.
Article 588. Statute of limitations for initiating lawsuits to claim damages
The statute of limitations for initiating a lawsuit to claim compensation for damage is 03 years from the date the person having the right to claim knows or should know that his/her lawful rights and interests have been infringed.
Section 2. DETERMINATION OF DAMAGE
Article 589. Damage caused by infringing property
Damage caused by infringing property includes:
1. Property is lost, destroyed or damaged.
2. Benefits associated with the use and exploitation of lost or reduced properties.
3. Reasonable costs to prevent, limit and remedy damage.
4. Other damage prescribed by law.
Article 590. Damage caused by infringement of health
1. Damage caused by infringing health includes:
a) Reasonable expenses for the treatment, fostering and rehabilitation of the aggrieved person's health and function lost or reduced;
b) The actual lost or reduced income of the aggrieved person; if the actual income of the aggrieved person is unstable and cannot be determined, the average income of the same type of worker shall apply;
c) Reasonable expenses and actual lost income of the carer of the damage sufferer during the treatment period; if the aggrieved person loses his working capacity and needs someone to take care of him regularly, the damage includes reasonable expenses for caring for the aggrieved person;
d) Other damage prescribed by law.
2. The person responsible for compensation in case the health of another person is violated must pay compensation for damage as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article and another sum of money to make up for the mental loss suffered by that person. . The level of compensation for mental loss shall be agreed upon by the parties; if no agreement can be reached, the maximum level for a person whose health is infringed shall not exceed fifty times the base salary prescribed by the State.
Article 591. Damage caused by infringement of life
1. Damage caused by infringing life includes:
a) Damage caused by infringing upon health as prescribed in Article 590 of this Code;
b) Reasonable expenses for burial;
c) Alimony for those for whom the damage sufferer is obliged to support;
d) Other damage prescribed by law.
2. Persons responsible for compensation in case other people's lives are infringed must compensate for damage as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article and another sum of money to compensate for the mental loss of their loved ones. of the first-order heirs of the aggrieved person, without these persons, the person whom the damage sufferer has directly raised and the person who has directly raised the aggrieved person is entitled to this sum. The level of compensation for mental loss shall be agreed upon by the parties; if no agreement can be reached, the maximum level for a person whose life is infringed shall not exceed one hundred times the base salary prescribed by the State.
Article 592. Damage caused by infringing upon honor, dignity or reputation
1. Damage caused by infringing upon honor, dignity or reputation includes:
a) Reasonable expenses to limit and remedy damage;
b) Actual lost or reduced income;
c) Other damage prescribed by law.
2. The person responsible for compensation in case the honor, dignity and reputation of another person is infringed upon must pay compensation for damage as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article and another sum of money to compensate for mental loss. god that the person suffers. The level of compensation for mental loss shall be agreed upon by the parties; if no agreement can be reached, the maximum level for a person whose honor, dignity or reputation has been infringed shall not exceed ten times the base salary prescribed by the State.
Article 593. Time limit for enjoying compensation for damage to life and health
1. In case the aggrieved person completely loses his/her working capacity, the aggrieved person is entitled to compensation from the time of complete loss of working capacity until his/her death, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the damage sufferer dies, the persons for whom this person is obliged to support while still alive shall be entitled to alimony from the time the person whose life is infringed dies within the following time limit:
a) Minors or pregnant persons who are children of the deceased and are still alive after birth are entitled to alimony until full eighteen years of age, except for cases where persons are between full fifteen and under eighteen years of age. age already engaged in labor and earning enough to support themselves;
b) Adults who are unable to work are entitled to alimony until their death.
3. For a dead person's unborn child, the alimony is calculated from the time this person is born and is still alive.
Section 3. COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGE IN SOME SPECIFIC CASE
Article 594. Compensation for damage in case of exceeding the limit of legitimate defense
The person causing damage in the case of legitimate defense is not required to compensate the damage sufferer.
The person who causes damage by exceeding the limit of legitimate defense must compensate the damage sufferer.
Article 595. Compensation for damage in case of exceeding the requirements of an urgent situation
1. In case the damage occurs due to exceeding the requirements of the urgent situation, the damage-causing person must compensate the damage caused by exceeding the requirements of the urgent situation to the damage sufferer.
2. Persons who have caused an urgent situation leading to the occurrence of damage must compensate the damage sufferers.
Article 596. Compensation for damage caused by stimulant users
1. Persons who, due to drinking alcohol or using other stimulants, fall into a state of loss of cognitive ability and behavior control, causing damage to others, must compensate.
2. When a person intentionally uses alcohol or other stimulants, causing another person to fall into a state of loss of awareness and control over his/her acts, causing damage, he/she must compensate the damage sufferer.
Article 597. Compensation for damage caused by persons of the legal entity
The legal person must compensate for damage caused by its person while performing the tasks assigned by the legal person; if the juridical person has compensated for damage, it has the right to request the person at fault in causing the damage to refund an amount of money as prescribed by law.
Article 598. Compensation for damage caused by official duty performers
The State is responsible for compensating for damage caused by illegal acts of official duty performers in accordance with the Law on State Compensation Liability.
Article 599. Compensation for damage caused by persons under fifteen years of age or persons who have lost their civil act capacity while under the direct management of schools, hospitals or other legal entities
1. If a person under fifteen years of age causes damage during the school's direct management, the school must compensate for the damage.
2. If a person who has lost his/her civil act capacity causes damage to another person while under the direct management of a hospital or other legal entity, the hospital or other legal entity must compensate for the damage that occurs.
3. Schools, hospitals and other legal entities specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article are not required to pay compensation if they can prove that they are not at fault in management; in this case, the father, mother, guardian of the person under fifteen years of age or the person who has lost his/her civil act capacity must compensate.
Article 600. Compensation for damage caused by employees or apprentices
Individuals and legal entities must compensate for damage caused by employees or apprentices while performing their assigned jobs and have the right to demand compensation from employees or apprentices who are at fault in causing damage. an amount prescribed by law.
Article 601. Compensation for damage caused by sources of extreme danger
1. Sources of extreme danger include motorized transport vehicles, power transmission systems, industrial plants in operation, weapons, explosives, inflammables, poisons, radioactive substances, wild animals and other sources of extreme danger prescribed by law.
Owners of sources of extreme danger must operate, use, preserve, keep and transport sources of extreme danger in accordance with law.
2. Owners of sources of extreme danger must compensate for damage caused by sources of extreme danger; if the owner has assigned it to another person to possess and use, this person must compensate, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Owners, possessors and users of sources of extreme danger must compensate for damage even when there is no fault, except for the following cases:
a) The damage occurred entirely due to the intentional fault of the damage sufferer;
b) Damage occurs in case of force majeure or emergency situation, unless otherwise provided for by law.
4. In case the source of extreme danger is illegally possessed or used, the person who is illegally possessing or using the source of extreme danger must compensate for damage.
When the owner, possessor, or user of a source of extreme danger is at fault in allowing the source of extreme danger to be illegally possessed or used, they must jointly compensate for the damage.
Article 602. Compensation for damage caused by environmental pollution
Subjects that pollute the environment and cause damage must compensate in accordance with law, even if such subjects are not at fault.
Article 603. Compensation for damage caused by animals
1. The owner of an animal must compensate other people for damage caused by the animal. Persons possessing and using animals must compensate for damage during the time of possessing and using animals, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the third person is entirely at fault, causing the animal to cause damage to another person, the third person must compensate for the damage; if the third party and the owner are both at fault, they must jointly compensate for the damage.
3. In case an animal is illegally possessed or used, causing damage, the person who illegally possesses or uses it must compensate; When the owner, possessor or user of an animal is at fault in allowing the animal to be illegally possessed or used, he/she must jointly compensate for the damage.
4. In case an animal is allowed to freely roam according to custom, causing damage, the owner of such animal must compensate according to the custom but must not be contrary to law or social ethics.
Article 604. Compensation for damage caused by trees
Owners, occupiers and persons assigned to manage must compensate for damage caused by trees.
Article 605. Compensation for damage caused by houses and other construction works
Owners, occupiers and persons assigned to manage and use other houses or constructions must compensate for damage caused by such houses or other construction works to other people.
When the constructor is at fault in letting the house or other construction work cause damage, he/she must jointly compensate.
Article 606. Compensation for damage caused by infringing upon the body
1. Individuals and legal entities that infringe upon the body must compensate for damage.
2. Damage caused by infringing upon the body includes reasonable expenses to limit and remedy the damage.
3. The person responsible for compensation when the body is infringed must pay compensation as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article and another sum of money to compensate for the mental loss of the relatives of the first heirs of the deceased. If there is no such person, the person who directly takes care of the dead person is entitled to this money. The level of compensation for mental loss shall be agreed upon by the parties; if no agreement is reached, the maximum level for each infringed body shall not exceed thirty times the base salary prescribed by the State.
Article 607. Compensation for damage caused by trespassing
1. Individuals or legal entities that infringe upon the graves of others must compensate for damage.
2. Damage caused by trespassing on graves includes reasonable expenses to limit and remedy the damage.
3. Persons responsible for compensation in case other people's graves are infringed must pay compensation according to the provisions of Clause 2 of this Article and another sum of money to compensate for the mental loss of their loved ones in order. order of inheritance of the deceased; if these people are not available, the person who directly takes care of the dead person is entitled to this money. The level of compensation for mental loss shall be agreed upon by the parties; if no agreement can be reached, the maximum level for each infringed grave shall not exceed ten times the basic salary prescribed by the State.
Article 608. Compensation for damage caused by violations of consumers' rights
Individuals and legal entities that produce or trade in goods or services that fail to ensure the quality of goods or services and cause damage to consumers must compensate.
The fourth part
INHERIT
Chapter XXI
GENERAL RULES
Article 609. Right of inheritance
Individuals have the right to make a will to dispose of their property; leave their property to their heirs according to the law; inheritance by will or by law.
The heir is not an individual who has the right to inherit under the will.
Article 610. Equality in inheritance of individuals
All individuals are equal in the right to leave their property to others and the right to inherit an estate under a will or by law.
Article 611. Time and place of opening inheritance
1. The time of opening the inheritance is the time of death of the property owner. In case the Court declares a person dead, the time of opening the inheritance is the date determined in Clause 2, Article 71 of this Code.
2. The place of opening the inheritance is the last residence of the person leaving the estate; if the last place of residence cannot be determined, the place of opening the inheritance is the place where the entire estate is located or where the majority of the estate is located.
Article 612. Heritage
Estate includes the separate property of the deceased, the deceased's share of the property in common with others.
Article 613. Heirs
An heir being an individual must be a person who was still alive at the time of opening the inheritance or was born and still alive after the time of opening the inheritance but became pregnant before the leaver died. In case the heir under the will is not an individual, it must exist at the time of opening the inheritance.
Article 614. Time of arising rights and obligations of heirs
From the time of opening the inheritance, the heirs have the property rights and obligations left by the deceased.
Article 615. Performance of property obligations left by the deceased
1. The heirs are responsible for performing property obligations within the estate left by the deceased, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the estate has not yet been divided, the property obligations left by the deceased shall be performed by the administrator of the estate according to the agreement of the heirs within the scope of the estate left by the deceased.
3. Where the estate has been divided, each heir shall perform the property obligations left by the deceased in proportion but not exceeding the portion of the property he has received, unless otherwise agreed.
4. In case the heir is not an individual inheriting the estate according to the will, he must also perform the property obligations left by the deceased like an individual heir.
Article 616. Estate administrator
1. An estate administrator is a person appointed in the will or appointed by agreement between the heirs.
2. In case the will does not appoint an administrator of the estate and the heirs have not yet appointed a manager, the person possessing, using and managing the estate shall continue to manage the estate until The heirs are appointed to administer the estate.
3. If the heir has not been identified and the estate has no manager as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the estate shall be managed by a competent state agency.
Article 617. Obligations of the estate administrator
1. An estate administrator specified in Clauses 1 and 3, Article 616 of this Code has the following obligations:
a) Make a list of heritage; recover property belonging to the deceased's estate that other persons are possessing, unless otherwise provided for by law;
b) Preservation of heritage; may not sell, exchange, donate, pledge, mortgage or otherwise dispose of the property, without the written consent of the heirs;
c) Notify the status of the estate to the heirs;
d) To pay compensation for damage if they breach their obligations and cause damage;
d) Hand over the estate at the request of the heir.
2. Persons who are possessing, using and managing the estate specified in Clause 2, Article 616 of this Code have the following obligations:
a) Preserving heritage; not sell, exchange, donate, pledge, mortgage or otherwise dispose of property;
b) Notice of the estate to the heirs;
c) To pay compensation for damage if they breach their obligations and cause damage;
d) Hand over the estate as agreed in the contract with the estate leaver or at the request of the heir.
Article 618. Rights of estate administrators
1. An estate administrator specified in Clauses 1 and 3, Article 616 of this Code has the following rights:
a) Representing the heirs in relation to a third person related to the inheritance;
b) To be entitled to remuneration as agreed with the heirs;
c) To be paid the cost of preserving the heritage.
2. Persons currently possessing, using and managing an estate specified in Clause 2, Article 616 of this Code have the following rights:
a) To continue using the estate as agreed in the contract with the estate leaver or with the consent of the heirs;
b) To be entitled to remuneration as agreed with the heirs;
c) To be paid the cost of preserving the heritage.
3. In case no agreement is reached with the heirs on the remuneration level, the estate administrator shall be entitled to a reasonable remuneration.
Article 619. Inheritance of persons who have the right to inherit each other's estates who die at the same time
In case people with the right to inherit each other's estates all die at the same time or are considered dead at the same time because it is impossible to determine which person died first (hereinafter referred to as concurrently dying), they shall not be allowed to die at the same time. inherit each other's estates and each person's estate shall be enjoyed by that person's heir, except for the case of inheritance of a position as prescribed in Article 652 of this Code.
Article 620. Refusal of inheritance
1. An heir has the right to refuse to receive an estate, except in cases where the refusal is aimed at evading the performance of his/her property obligations towards another person.
2. The refusal to receive the estate must be made in writing and sent to the administrator of the estate, other heirs and the person assigned the task of dividing the estate for information.
3. The refusal to receive the estate must be shown before the time of division of the estate.
Article 621. Persons not entitled to inheritance
1. The following people are not entitled to inherit:
a) Persons convicted of intentional acts of infringing upon life or health or of serious mistreatment, torturing estate leavers, seriously infringing upon that person's honor and dignity;
b) The person seriously violates the obligation to nurture the estate leaver;
c) The person is convicted of intentionally infringing upon the life of another heir in order to enjoy part or the whole of the estate to which such heir is entitled;
d) Persons who commit acts of deception, coercion or obstruction of estate leavers in making wills; forging wills, modifying wills, canceling wills, concealing wills in order to enjoy part or all of the estate against the will of the estate leavers.
2. The persons specified in Clause 1 of this Article are still entitled to the estate, if the estate leavers knew their acts, but still allowed them to enjoy the estate according to the will.
Article 622. Property without an heir
In case there is no heir according to the will or according to the law or there is but no right to inherit or refuses to receive the estate, the remaining property after the performance of property obligations but no one has acknowledged. succession to the State.
Article 623. Statute of limitations for inheritance
1. The statute of limitations for an heir to request the division of an estate is 30 years for immovable property, 10 years for movable property, from the time of opening the inheritance. At the end of this period, the estate belongs to the heir who is managing the estate. In case there is no heir who is managing the estate, the estate shall be settled as follows:
a) The property belongs to the person currently possessing it as prescribed in Article 236 of this Code;
b) The estate belongs to the State, if there is no possessor specified at Point a of this Clause.
2. The statute of limitations for an heir to request confirmation of his or her inheritance right or rejection of another's inheritance is 10 years from the time of opening the inheritance.
3. The statute of limitations for requesting the heir to perform the property obligations left by the deceased is 03 years from the time of opening the inheritance.
Chapter XXII
Inheritance By Will
Article 624. Wills
A will is an expression of an individual's will to transfer his or her property to another person after death.
Article 625. Testator
1. Adults who fully meet the conditions specified at Point a, Clause 1, Article 630 of this Code have the right to make a will to dispose of their property.
2. Persons between full fifteen years of age and under eighteen years of age may make wills, if their fathers, mothers or guardians agree on the making.
Article 626. Rights of testator
The testator has the following rights:
1. Designate an heir; disenfranchisement of the heir.
2. Allotment of inheritance for each heir.
3. Set aside a part of property in the heritage block to bequeath and worship.
4. Assign obligations to heirs.
5. Designate the will-keeper, the administrator of the estate, the division of the estate.
Article 627. Form of wills
Wills must be made in writing; If it is not possible to make a will in writing, an oral will is possible.
Article 628. Written wills
A written will includes:
1. A written will without witnesses.
2. A written will with witnesses.
3. Notarized written will.
4. A written will with certification.
Article 629. Oral wills
1. Where a person's life is threatened by death and it is impossible to make a written will, an oral will may be made.
2. After 03 months from the time of oral will, if the testator is still alive, sane and lucid, the oral will will be automatically annulled.
Article 630. Lawful wills
1. A lawful will must fully satisfy the following conditions:
a) The testator is lucid and lucid while making the will; not be deceived, threatened or coerced;
b) The content of the will does not violate the prohibition of the law or against social ethics; the form of a will is not contrary to the provisions of the law.
2. Wills of persons aged between full fifteen years and under eighteen years must be made in writing and must be approved by their parents or guardians on the making.
3. The will of a person with physical limitations or of an illiterate person must be made in writing by a witness and notarized or authenticated.
4. A written will without notarization or authentication shall only be considered lawful if all the conditions specified in Clause 1 of this Article are satisfied.
5. An oral will is considered legal if the oral testator shows his/her last will in front of at least two witnesses and immediately after the oral testator shows his/her final will, the witness records copy, co-sign or fingerprint. Within 5 working days from the date the oral testator expresses his/her final will, the will must be certified by a notary public or a competent authority to certify the signature or fingerprints of the witness.
Article 631. Contents of wills
1. A will includes the following main contents:
a) Date, month and year of making the will;
b) Full name and place of residence of the testator;
c) Full name of the person, agency or organization entitled to the estate;
d) The legacy left behind and the place where the estate is located.
2. In addition to the contents specified in Clause 1 of this Article, a will may contain other contents.
3. A will must not be abbreviated or written in symbols. If the will consists of many pages, each page must be numbered and signed with the testator's signature or fingerprint.
In case a will has been erased or corrected, the person who wrote the will or testified to the will must sign it next to the place where the will is erased or corrected.
Article 632. Witnesses for the making of wills
Everyone can testify to the making of a will, except the following:
1. Heirs according to the will or at law of the testator.
2. Persons with property rights and obligations related to the content of the will.
3. Minors, people who have lost their civil act capacity, people with difficulties in perception and behavior control.
Article 633. Written will without witnesses
The testator must write and sign the will himself.
The making of a written will without witnesses must comply with the provisions of Article 631 of this Code.
Article 634. Written wills with witnesses
In case the testator does not write the will by himself, he may type it himself or ask another person to write or type the will, but there must be at least two witnesses. The testator must sign or point to the will in front of the witnesses; the witnesses certify the signature and fingerprints of the testator and sign the will.
The making of a written will with witnesses must comply with the provisions of Articles 631 and 632 of this Code.
Article 635. Notarized or authenticated wills
The testator may request notarization or certification of the will.
Article 636. Procedures for making wills at notary practice organizations or commune-level People's Committees
The making of a will at a notary public practice organization or the commune-level People's Committee must comply with the following procedures:
1. The testator shall declare the contents of the will in front of a notary public or a person competent to authenticate of the commune-level People's Committee. The notary public or the person competent to authenticate of the commune-level People's Committee must record the contents declared by the testator. The testator signs or points to the will after confirming that the will has been accurately recorded and correctly expresses his or her will. The notary public or the person competent to authenticate of the People's Committee of the commune shall sign the will.
2. In case the testator cannot read or hear the will, cannot sign or point it out, he/she must ask a witness and this person must sign for certification in front of a notary or a person competent to certify. reality of the commune-level People's Committee. A notary public or a person competent to authenticate of the commune-level People's Committee shall certify the will in front of the testator and witnesses.
Article 637. Persons not allowed to notarize or authenticate wills
A notary public or a competent person of the commune-level People's Committee may not notarize or authenticate a will if it falls into one of the following cases:
1. Heirs according to the will or at law of the testator.
2. Persons whose father, mother, spouse or children are heirs according to a will or at law.
3. Persons with property rights and obligations related to the content of the will.
Article 638. A written will is as valid as a notarized or authenticated will
1. The will of an active-duty soldier certified by the head of the unit at the company level or higher, if the soldier cannot request notarization or authentication.
2. The will of the person traveling on board the ship or aircraft, certified by the commander of that vehicle.
3. The will of the person being treated at a hospital, other medical treatment or nursing facility, certified by the person in charge of that hospital or facility.
4. The will of the person doing the survey, exploration and research work in the forest, mountain and island areas, certified by the person in charge of the unit.
5. Wills of Vietnamese citizens living abroad certified by Vietnamese consular offices or diplomatic representatives in that country.
6. Wills of persons being held in custody, temporary detention, serving prison sentences, or serving administrative handling measures at educational institutions or medical treatment establishments, certified by the person in charge of the facility. there.
Article 639. Wills made by a notary at the place of residence
1. The testator may request a notary to come to his/her place of residence to make a will.
2. The procedure for making a will at the place of residence is carried out the same way as the procedure for making a will at a notary practice organization according to the provisions of Article 636 of this Code.
Article 640. Amendment, supplementation, replacement and annulment of wills
1. The testator may amend, supplement, replace or cancel the will he has made at any time.
2. If the testator makes an addition to the will, the made will and the additional part have the same legal effect; if a part of the will and the supplement are in conflict, only the supplementary part shall have legal effect.
3. In case the testator replaces the will with a new one, the previous will will be annulled.
Article 641. Deposit of wills
1. The testator may request the notarial practice organization to keep or send another person to keep the will.
2. If a notary practice organization keeps a testament, it must preserve it in accordance with this Code and the law on notarization.
3. A testament holder has the following obligations:
a) Keep the content of the will secret;
b) Preserve and preserve the will; if the will is lost or damaged, it must immediately notify the testator;
c) Return the testament to the heir or the person competent to announce the will, upon the death of the testator. The handover of the will must be made in writing, signed by the giver and recipient and in the presence of at least two witnesses.
Article 642. Lost or damaged wills
1. From the time of opening the inheritance, if the will is lost or damaged to the extent that it cannot fully express the will of the testator and there is no evidence to prove the true will. of the testator, it is considered that there is no will and the provisions on inheritance according to law apply.
2. If the estate has not been divided but a will is found, the estate shall be divided according to the will.
3. Within the statute of limitations for requesting the division of the estate, if the estate has been divided and the will is found, it must be redistributed according to the will if the heirs under the will so request.
Article 643. Effect of wills
1. The will takes effect from the time of opening the inheritance.
2. A will is not valid in whole or in part in the following cases:
a) The testamentary heir dies before or at the same time as the testator;
b) The agency or organization designated as the heir no longer exists at the time of opening the inheritance.
In case there are many heirs under the will and one of them dies before or at the same time as the testator, one of the many agencies or organizations designated to inherit according to the will no longer exists at the time of testatories. If the inheritance is opened, only the part of the will related to this individual, agency or organization will not take effect.
3. A will is invalid if the estate left to the heir is no longer available at the time of opening the inheritance; if only part of the estate left to the heir remains, the will on the remaining part of the estate is still valid.
4. When a will has an illegal part that does not affect the validity of the remaining parts, only that part is invalid.
5. When a person leaves more than one will on a property, only the last will is valid.
Article 644. The heir does not depend on the contents of the will
1. The following persons are still entitled to a share of the estate equal to two-thirds of that of an heir at law if the estate is divided according to law, in case they are not allowed to enjoy the estate by the testator or only grant less than two-thirds of that portion of the estate:
a) Minor children, father, mother, wife, husband;
b) Adult children without working capacity.
2. The provisions of Clause 1 of this Article shall not apply to persons who refuse to receive the estate as prescribed in Article 620 or who do not have the right to inherit the estate as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 621 of this Code.
Article 645. Heritage used for worship
1. In case the testator leaves a part of the estate to be used for worship, that part of the estate shall not be divided into inheritance and shall be assigned to the person designated in the will for management to perform the worship; if the designated person fails to properly perform the will or according to the agreement of the heirs, the heirs have the right to transfer the portion of the estate used for worshiping to another person to manage for worship.
In case the person leaving the estate does not appoint a manager of the worship estate, the heirs shall appoint a manager of the worship estate.
In case all the heirs according to the will have died, the part of the estate used for worship shall belong to the person who is lawfully managing the estate among the legal heirs.
2. Where a deceased person's entire estate is not enough to pay off his/her property obligations, part of the estate may not be used for worship.
Article 646. Gifts
1. Bequest is the act of giving a part of the estate by the testator to another person. The donation must be clearly stated in the will.
2. An individual bequeathed person must be alive at the time of inheritance opening or born and still alive after the time of inheritance opening but became pregnant before the leaver dies. In case the bequest is not an individual, it must exist at the time of opening the inheritance.
3. The bequeathed person is not required to perform property obligations for the part to be bequeathed, except where the entire estate is not enough to pay the testator's property obligations, the part of the estate will also be used to perform the remainder of his obligations.
Article 647. Publication of wills
1. In case a written will is kept at a notarial practice organization, the notary public is the one who publishes the will.
2. In case the testator appoints a testator, this person is obliged to announce the will; if the testator does not appoint or appoints but the designee refuses to announce the will, the remaining heirs shall agree to appoint a will announcer.
3. After the time of opening the inheritance, the testament announcer must make copies and send the will to all persons related to the contents of the will.
4. The person who receives a copy of the will has the right to request a comparison with the original of the will.
5. If a will is made in a foreign language, it must be translated into Vietnamese and notarized or authenticated.
Article 648. Interpretation of wills
In case the content of the will is unclear leading to different interpretations, the heirs under the will must jointly explain the contents of the will based on the previous true will of the deceased, taking into account the relationship between the deceased and the deceased. relationship of the deceased to the heirs according to the will. When these people disagree on how to understand the content of the will, they have the right to ask the Court to settle.
Where there is a part of the will that cannot be explained but does not affect the rest of the will, only the unexplained part will not take effect.
Chapter XXIII
LEGAL inheritance
Article 649. Inheritance at law
Inheritance according to law means inheritance according to the line of succession, the conditions and order of inheritance prescribed by law.
Article 650. Cases of inheritance according to law
1. Inheritance at law shall apply in the following cases:
a) There is no will;
b) The will is not legal;
c) The testamentary heirs die before or at the same time as the testator; the agency or organization entitled to inherit according to the will no longer exists at the time of opening the inheritance;
d) Persons designated as heirs under the will who do not have the right to inherit or refuse to receive the estate.
2. Inheritance at law also applies to the following parts of the estate:
a) The part of the estate that is not determined in the will;
b) The part of the estate related to the part of the will has no legal effect;
c) The part of the estate related to the heir under the will but they do not have the right to inherit the estate, refuse to receive the estate, die before or at the same time as the testator; related to the agency or organization that is entitled to the estate under the will, but no longer exists at the time of opening the inheritance.
Article 651. Legal heirs
1. The at-law heirs are specified in the following order:
a) The first line of inheritance includes: wife, husband, natural father, natural mother, adoptive father, adoptive mother, biological child, adopted child of the deceased;
b) The second line of inheritance includes: grandfather, grandmother, maternal grandfather, grandmother, biological brother, sister, biological brother of the deceased; the biological grandchildren of the deceased and the deceased are grandfathers, grandmothers, maternal grandfathers, grandmothers;
c) The third line of inheritance includes: paternal and maternal great-grandfathers of the deceased; biological uncle, biological uncle, biological uncle, aunt, biological aunt of the deceased; the biological grandchildren of the deceased and the deceased are biological uncles, biological uncles, biological uncles, biological aunts, biological aunts; great-grandson of the deceased, but the deceased is a paternal great-grandfather.
2. The heirs of the same row shall enjoy an equal share of the estate.
3. People in the following line of heirs are entitled to inherit only if there is no one in the previous line of heirs because they have died, have no right to inherit, are deprived of the right to inherit or refuse to receive the estate.
Article 652. Inheritance of position
In case a child of the estate leaver dies before or at the same time as the leaver, the grandchild shall enjoy the portion of the estate that his or her father or mother would enjoy if he was still alive; if the grandchild also dies before or at the same time as the person leaving the estate, the great-grandchild will enjoy the portion of the estate that the great-grandchild's father or mother would enjoy if he was still alive.
Article 653. Inheritance relationship between adopted child and adoptive father, adoptive mother and natural father and mother
Adoptive children and adoptive fathers and adoptive mothers may inherit each other's estates and may also inherit their estates according to the provisions of Articles 651 and 652 of this Code.
Article 654. Inheritance relationship between stepchildren and stepfather, stepmother
Stepchildren and stepfathers, stepmothers, if they have a relationship of caring and nurturing each other like father and son, they shall inherit each other's estates and may also inherit the estates according to the provisions of Articles 652 and 653 of the Ministry of Finance. this law.
Article 655. Inheritance in cases where husband and wife have divided common property; spouse is applying for divorce or is married to another person
1. In case a husband and wife have divided the common property while the marriage still exists and then one of them dies, the surviving person will still inherit the estate.
2. In case a husband or wife applies for a divorce but has not yet been granted a divorce by a court with a judgment or decision that has not yet taken effect, if one of them dies, the surviving person will still inherit the estate.
3. A person who is a wife or husband of a person at the time of his/her death, even if he later gets married to another person, still inherits the estate.
Chapter XXIV
PAYMENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE HERITAGE
Article 656. Meeting of heirs
1. After the announcement on the opening of the inheritance or the will is published, the heirs may meet to agree on the following:
a) Appoint an estate administrator and divider to determine the rights and obligations of these persons, if the estate leaver is not specified in the will;
b) How the estate is divided.
2. All agreements of the heirs must be made in writing.
Article 657. Estate divider
1. The person distributing the estate may concurrently be the administrator of the estate designated in the will or appointed by agreement of the heirs.
2. The person distributing the estate must divide the estate according to the will or agreement of the heirs at law.
3. The person who distributes the estate is entitled to remuneration, if the person leaving the estate allows it in the will or the heirs agree.
Article 658. Order of priority for payment
Property obligations and inheritance-related expenses are paid in the following order:
1. Reasonable and customary expenses for burial.
2. Missing alimony.
3. Expenses for heritage preservation.
4. Subsidies for dependents.
5. Labor wages.
6. Compensation for damage.
7. Taxes and other payables to the state budget.
8. Other debts to individuals and legal entities.
9. Fines.
10. Other expenses.
Article 659. Distribution of estate according to wills
1. The division of the estate shall be done according to the will of the testator; if the will does not clearly identify the portion of each heir, the estate shall be divided equally among the persons designated in the will, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the will determines the division of the estate in kind, the heirs may receive in kind together with the yields and profits earned from such in-kind things or bear the reduced value of the in-kind things up to the date of the will. the time of division of the estate; if the object is destroyed due to another person's fault, the heir has the right to claim compensation for the damage.
3. In case the will only determines the division of the estate according to the proportion of the total value of the estate block, this ratio shall be calculated on the value of the estate still remaining at the time of division of the estate.
Article 660. Distribution of estate according to law
1. When dividing an estate, if there is an heir in the same row who has become pregnant but has not yet been born, he/she must reserve a portion of the estate equal to the portion enjoyed by other heirs so that if such heir is still alive at birth inherit; If he dies before birth, the other heirs are entitled to it.
2. The heirs have the right to request the division of the estate in kind; if it is not possible to divide equally in kind, the heirs may agree on the valuation of the in kind and on the recipient of the kind; if no agreement can be reached, the kind will be sold for division.
Article 661. Restrictions on division of estate
If, by the will of the testator or by agreement of all the heirs, the estate is distributed only after a certain period of time, the estate shall only be divided after that time limit has expired.
In case of requesting the division of the inheritance, but the division of the estate seriously affects the life of the surviving spouse and family, the surviving party has the right to request the Court to determine the portion of the estate that the heirs have received. the heirs are entitled to but have not yet distributed the estate within a certain period of time. This time limit shall not exceed 03 years from the time of opening the inheritance. At the end of the 3-year time limit, if the surviving party proves that the division of the estate still seriously affects their family's life, it may request the Court to extend it once but for no more than 3 years.
Article 662. Estate division in case there is a new heir or an heir whose inheritance is denied
1. In case the estate has been divided and a new heir appears, the redistribution of the estate in kind shall not be effected, but the heirs who have received the estate must pay the new heir a sum of money. corresponding to that person's portion of the estate at the time of inheritance division in proportion to the portion of the estate received, unless otherwise agreed.
2. In case the estate has been divided, but an heir is denied the right to inherit, that person must return the estate or pay an amount equivalent to the value of the estate enjoyed at the time of division of the inheritance. heirs, unless otherwise agreed.
Fifth part
LAW APPLICABLE TO CIVIL RELATIONSHIP WITH FOREIGN ELEMENTS
Chapter XXV
GENERAL RULES
Article 663. Scope of application
1. This section provides for the law applicable to civil relations involving foreign elements.
If another law contains provisions on legislation applicable to civil relations involving foreign elements that do not contravene the provisions of Articles 664 to 671 of this Code, that law shall apply; otherwise, the provisions of this Code shall prevail. relevant Section Fifth of this Code applies.
2. A civil relationship involving a foreign element is a civil relationship in one of the following cases:
a) At least one of the participating parties is a foreign individual or legal entity;
b) The participating parties are all Vietnamese citizens or Vietnamese legal entities, but the establishment, change, performance or termination of such relationship occurs in a foreign country;
c) The involved parties are all Vietnamese citizens or Vietnamese legal entities, but the subject matter of such civil relations is abroad.
Article 664. Determination of applicable law to civil relations involving foreign elements
1. Laws applicable to civil relations involving foreign elements shall be determined according to international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory or Vietnamese law.
2. Where an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a contracting party or Vietnamese law provides that the parties have the right to choose, the law applicable to civil relations involving foreign elements shall be determined at the option of the parties.
3. In case the applicable law cannot be determined as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the applicable law is the law of the country that has the closest relationship with the civil relationship involving foreign elements. there.
Article 665. Application of international treaties to civil relations involving foreign elements
1. In case an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a contracting party contains provisions on the rights and obligations of the parties to a civil relationship involving foreign elements, the provisions of the treaty that is applicable.
2. Where an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a contracting party contains provisions different from those of this Part and other laws on law applicable to civil relations involving foreign elements, provisions of that international treaty shall apply.
Article 666. Application of international custom
The parties may choose international practices in the case specified in Clause 2, Article 664 of this Code. If the consequences of the application of such international practice are contrary to the basic principles of Vietnamese law, Vietnamese law shall apply.
Article 667. Application of foreign laws
Where a foreign law is applied but there are different interpretations, the application must follow the interpretation of the competent authority in that country.
Article 668. Scope of law referred to
1. The law referred to includes provisions on determining applicable law and provisions on rights and obligations of parties to civil relations, except for the case specified in Clause 4 of this Article.
2. In case of reference to Vietnamese law, the provisions of Vietnamese law on rights and obligations of the parties to civil relations shall apply.
3. In case of reference to the law of a third country, the provisions of the law of the third country on the rights and obligations of the parties to the civil relationship shall apply.
4. In the case specified in Clause 2, Article 664 of this Code, the law chosen by the parties is the provisions on the rights and obligations of the parties to the civil relationship, excluding the provisions on determining the law. applicable law.
Article 669. Application of laws of countries with multiple legal systems
Where the law of a country to which more than one legal system is referred, the applicable law shall be determined according to the principles prescribed by the law of that country.
Article 670. Cases where foreign law is not applied
1. The foreign law referred to is not applicable in the following cases:
a) Consequences of the application of a foreign law contrary to the basic principles of Vietnamese law;
b) The contents of the foreign law cannot be determined even though necessary measures have been applied in accordance with the procedural law.
2. Where foreign law is not applied as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, Vietnamese law shall apply.
Article 671. Statute of limitations
The statute of limitations for civil relations involving foreign elements shall be determined according to the law applicable to such civil relations.
Chapter XXVI
LEGAL APPLICATION TO PERSONAL AND juridical persons
Article 672. Grounds for determining the law applicable to stateless persons and persons with multiple nationalities
1. In case the law referred to is the law of the country of which the individual has a nationality but the individual is stateless, the applicable law is the law of the country where the individual resides at the time of arising. civil relations with foreign elements. If such person has multiple places of residence or the place of residence is unknown at the time of the arising of a civil relationship involving foreign elements, the applicable law shall be the law of the country with which such person has the closest relationship. .
2. In case the law referred to is the law of the country of which the individual has nationality but that individual is a person with multiple nationalities, the applicable law shall be the law of the country where the individual has nationality and resides. at the time when civil relations involving foreign elements arise. If that person has multiple places of residence, or the place of residence or place of residence is unknown, and the place of residence and the place of nationality is different at the time of the arising of a civil relationship involving foreign elements, the applicable law shall be the law of that person. the country with which the person is a national and has the closest connection.
In case the law referred to is the law of the country of which the individual has nationality but that individual is a person with multiple nationalities, including Vietnamese nationality, the applicable law is Vietnamese law.
Article 673. Civil legal capacity of individuals
1. An individual's civil legal capacity is determined according to the law of the country of which he or she has nationality.
2. Foreigners in Vietnam have the same civil legal capacity as Vietnamese citizens, unless otherwise provided for by Vietnamese law.
Article 674. Civil act capacity of individuals
1. An individual's civil act capacity is determined according to the law of the country of which he/she has nationality, except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Where a foreigner establishes and performs civil transactions in Vietnam, such foreigner's civil act capacity shall be determined according to Vietnamese law.
3. The identification of an individual who has lost his/her civil act capacity, has difficulties in perception, acts control or has limited civil act capacity in Vietnam according to Vietnamese law.
Article 675. Identification of missing or dead individuals
1. The determination of a missing or dead individual shall comply with the law of the country of which that person has nationality at the time before the last news about such person is available, except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. The identification in Vietnam of an individual missing or dead according to Vietnamese law.
Article 676. Legal person
1. The nationality of a juridical person is determined according to the law of the country where the juridical person is established.
2. The civil legal capacity of the legal person; the name of the legal person; legal representative of the legal person; the organization, reorganization and dissolution of legal entities; the relationship between the legal person and its members; Responsibilities of the juridical person and its members for the juridical person's obligations shall be determined according to the law of the country of which the juridical person has nationality, except for the case specified in Clause 3 of this Article.
3. In case a foreign juridical person establishes and performs civil transactions in Vietnam, the civil legal capacity of such foreign juridical person shall be determined according to Vietnamese law.
Chapter XXVII
LEGAL APPLICATION TO PROPERTY RELATIONSHIP, PERIOD RELATIONSHIP
Article 677. Property classification
The classification of property as movable, immovable property is determined according to the law of the country where the property is located.
Article 678. Property rights and other rights to property
1. The establishment, exercise, change and termination of ownership and other rights to property shall be determined according to the law of the country where the property is located, except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Ownership and other rights to movable property in transit shall be determined according to the law of the country where the movable property is transferred, unless otherwise agreed.
Article 679. Intellectual property rights
Intellectual property rights are determined according to the laws of the country where the subject matter of intellectual property rights is claimed.
Article 680. Inheritance
1. Inheritance is determined according to the law of the country of which the person leaving the heir had the nationality immediately before his death.
2. The exercise of the right of inheritance to immovable property shall be determined according to the laws of the country where such immovable property is located.
Article 681. Wills
1. The capacity to make, change or cancel a will is determined according to the law of the country of which the testator has the nationality at the time of making, changing or annuling the will.
2. The form of a will is determined according to the laws of the country where the will is made. The form of a will is also recognized in Vietnam if it is consistent with the law of one of the following countries:
a) The country where the testator resides at the time of making or at the time of death;
b) The country of the testator's nationality at the time of making or at the time of death of the testator;
c) The country where the immovable property is located if the inheritance is immovable.
Article 682. Guardianship
Guardianship is determined according to the laws of the country where the ward resides.
Article 683. Contracts
1. The parties to a contractual relationship may agree on the choice of law applicable to the contract, except for the case specified in Clauses 4, 5 and 6 of this Article. If the parties do not agree on the applicable law, the law of the country with the closest relationship to the contract shall apply.
2. The laws of the following countries are considered to be the laws of the countries that have the closest relationship with the contract:
a) The law of the country where the seller resides if he is an individual or the place of establishment if he is a legal entity, for the sale of goods contract;
b) The law of the country where the service provider resides if he is an individual or the place of establishment if he is a legal entity for service contracts;
c) The law of the country where the right recipient resides if he is an individual or the place of establishment if he is a legal entity in respect of contracts for licensing of use rights or assignment of intellectual property rights;
d) The law of the country where the employee regularly performs work for the labor contract. If the employee regularly performs work in different countries or it is not possible to determine where the employee regularly performs work, the law of the country that has the closest relationship with the labor contract is the law. of the country where the employer resides in the case of an individual or is established in the case of a legal entity;
d) The law of the country where the consumer resides with respect to the contract of consumption.
3. In case it can be proved that the law of a country other than the law mentioned in Clause 2 of this Article has a closer relationship with the contract, the applicable law is the law of that country.
4. In case the contract is immovable, the law applicable to the transfer of ownership rights and other rights to the property is immovable, the lease of immovable property or the use of immovable property for guarantee of performance is the law of the country where the immovable property is located.
5. Where the law selected by the parties in the labor contract or consumer contract affects the minimum interests of employees and consumers according to the provisions of Vietnamese law, the law of Vietnam is applied.
6. The parties may agree to change the law applicable to the contract, but such change must not affect the lawful rights and interests of a third party before the change of applicable law, except where the third party consents.
7. The form of a contract shall be determined according to the law applicable to such contract. In case the form of a contract is not consistent with the form of a contract under the law applicable to that contract, but is consistent with the form of a contract under the law of the country where the contract is concluded or the law of Vietnam, such form of contract is recognized in Vietnam.
Article 684. Unilateral legal acts
The law applicable to unilateral legal acts is the law of the country in which the individual who establishes the act resides or where the juridical person who establishes the act is established.
Article 685. The obligation to return property due to possession, use or gain of property has no legal basis
The obligation to return due to possession, use or gain of property without a legal basis is determined according to the law of the country where the possession or use of the property is carried out or where the benefits to be enjoyed arise. there is no legal basis.
Article 686. Performing work without authorization
The parties may agree to choose the law applicable to the performance of the work without authorization. In the absence of an agreement, the applicable law is the law of the country where the unauthorized work is performed.
Article 687. Compensation for damage outside the contract
1. The parties may agree to choose the law applicable to the compensation for damage outside the contract, except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article. In the absence of an agreement, the law of the country where the consequences of the event causing the damage arise shall apply.
2. Where the damage-causing party and the aggrieved party have a domicile, for an individual or place of establishment, for a juridical person in the same country, the laws of that country shall apply.
The sixth part
TERMS ENFORCEMENT
Article 688. Transition provisions
1. For civil transactions established before the effective date of this Code, the application of law is prescribed as follows:
a) A civil transaction that has not been performed but has a content and form different from the provisions of this Code, the transaction subject shall continue to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and other relevant laws and regulations. legal documents detailing the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11, unless the parties to a civil transaction have agreed on the modification and supplementation of the content and form of the transaction to in accordance with this Code and for the application of the provisions of this Code.
For civil transactions being performed that have contents and forms different from the provisions of this Code, the provisions of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and other legal documents providing for payment shall be applied. Section of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11;
b) For civil transactions that have not been performed or are being performed but have contents and forms consistent with the provisions of this Code, the provisions of this Code shall apply;
c) If there is a dispute when a civil transaction is completed before the effective date of this Code, the provisions of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and other legal documents detailing the provisions of this Code shall apply. Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 for settlement;
d) The statute of limitations shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
2. This Code shall not be applied to protest according to cassation or reopening procedures for cases which the Court has settled in accordance with the civil law before the effective date of this Code.
Article 689. Effect
This Code takes effect from January 1, 2017.
The Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 ceases to be effective from the effective date of this Code.
This Code was approved by the 13th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 10th session on November 24, 2015.

  PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS



Nguyen Sinh Hung

