National Assembly 
-------	SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Independence - Freedom - Happiness---------
Law No.: 23/2008/QH12	Hanoi, November 13, 2008
 
THE LAW
ROAD TRAFFIC
Pursuant to the 1992 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which has been amended and supplemented with a number of articles under Resolution No. 51/2001/QH10; 
The National Assembly promulgates the Law on Road Traffic.
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Scope
This Law provides for road traffic rules; road traffic infrastructure; vehicles and road users; road transport and state management of road traffic.
Article 2. Subjects of application
This Law applies to organizations and individuals involved in road traffic in the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Article 3. Interpretation of terms
In this Law, the following terms are construed as follows:
1. Roads include roads, road bridges, road tunnels, road ferry terminals.
2. Road works include roads, parking places, traffic lights, road signs, road markings, marker posts, barriers, traffic islands, median strips, kilometer posts, walls, embankments, drainage systems, vehicle load testing stations, toll stations and other road auxiliary works and equipment.
3. Road traffic infrastructure includes road works, bus stations, parking lots, rest stops and other ancillary works on roads serving traffic and road safety corridors.
4. Road land means the land on which road works are built and the land along both sides of the road for the management, maintenance and protection of road works.
5. Road safety corridor is a strip of land along both sides of the land of a road, from the outer edge of the road to both sides to ensure road traffic safety.
6. The part of the roadway is the part of the roadway used for passing vehicles.
7. A lane is a part of the roadway divided along the length of the road with a width sufficient for safe driving.
8. The limited gauge of a road is a space with limited dimensions in terms of height and width of roads, bridges, ferries, and road tunnels for vehicles, including goods loaded on them, to pass safely.
9. Streets is an urban road, including roadbeds and sidewalks.
10. A median strip is a part of a road used to divide the road surface into two separate directions or to divide the road part of motor vehicles and rudimentary vehicles. Separators include fixed type and movable type.
11. The place of intersection of the same level (hereinafter referred to as the intersection) is the place where two or more roads meet on the same plane, including the plane forming the intersection.
12. Expressway is a road for motor vehicles, with a median dividing the road for two-way vehicles; do not intersect at the same level with one or the other lines; be fully equipped with service equipment, ensure continuous and safe traffic, shorten the journey time and only allow vehicles to enter and exit at certain points.
13. The main road is the main road to ensure traffic in the area.
14. Branch road is the connection to the main road.
15. Priority road is a road on which vehicles participating in road traffic are given way by traffic vehicles coming from other directions when crossing the intersection, with priority road signs posted.
16. Consolidation road is a road to gather the system of internal roads of urban, industrial, economic, residential, commercial - service areas and other roads to main roads or to branch roads before connection. into the main road. 
17. Road means of transport include road motorized vehicles and rudimentary road vehicles.
18. Road motor vehicles (hereinafter referred to as motor vehicles) include automobiles; tractor; trailers or semi-trailers towed by cars or tractors; two-wheeled motorcycles; three-wheeled motorcycles; motorcycles (including electric scooters) and similar vehicles. 
19. Rough road vehicles (hereinafter referred to as rudimentary vehicles) include bicycles (including motorized bicycles), cyclos, wheelchairs for the disabled, animal-drawn carts and other vehicles. similar.
20. Special-use vehicles include construction motorcycles, agricultural and forestry motorcycles and other special vehicles used for defense and security purposes and participate in road traffic.
21. Vehicles participating in road traffic include road vehicles and special-use motorcycles.
22. Traffic participants include drivers and vehicle users participating in road traffic; someone who controls or leads an animal; pedestrians on the road.
23. Vehicle drivers include drivers of motor vehicles, rudimentary vehicles and special-use motorcycles participating in road traffic.
24. Driver is a person operating a motor vehicle.
25. The traffic controller is the traffic police; persons assigned the task of guiding traffic at construction sites, at traffic jams, at ferry terminals, at road bridges that go together with railways.
26. Passenger means a person who is carried on a road passenger transport vehicle, with payment.
27. Luggage is an item that a passenger carries on the same vehicle or sends it in another vehicle.
28. Goods are machinery, equipment, raw materials, fuel, consumer goods, live animals and other movable property transported by road vehicles.
29. Dangerous goods are goods containing dangerous substances when carried on the road, which are likely to cause harm to human life, health, environment, safety and national security.
30. Road transport is the activity of using land vehicles to transport people and goods on roads.
31. Transporter means an organization or individual that uses a land vehicle to carry out road transport activities.
32. Road management agency is an agency performing the specialized state management function under the Ministry of Transport; specialized agencies of the People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities (hereinafter referred to as provincial level), People's Committees of rural districts, urban districts, towns and provincial cities (hereinafter referred to as district level) ); People's Committees of communes, wards and townships (hereinafter referred to as commune level).
Article 4. Principles of road traffic activities
1. Road traffic activities must ensure smoothness, order, safety and efficiency; contributing to socio-economic development, ensuring national defense and security and protecting the environment.
2. Develop road traffic according to planning, step by step modern and synchronous; linking road transport mode with other modes of transport.
3. Management of road traffic activities is carried out uniformly on the basis of assignment and decentralization of specific responsibilities and powers, and at the same time there is close coordination between ministries, branches and local authorities. grant.
4. Ensuring road traffic order and safety is the responsibility of agencies, organizations and individuals.
5. Traffic participants must have a sense of self-discipline, strictly abide by traffic rules, and keep safety for themselves and others. Vehicle owners and vehicle drivers must take responsibility before law for ensuring the safety of vehicles participating in road traffic.
6. All acts of violating the road traffic law must be detected and prevented in time, handled strictly and lawfully.
Article 5. Policy on development of road traffic
1. The State concentrates resources on road traffic development, giving priority to investment in development of road traffic infrastructure in key economic regions, cities, mountainous, deep-lying and remote areas, border, islands, ethnic minority areas; adopt policies on mobilizing resources for road management and maintenance.
2. The State has a policy of prioritizing the development of public passenger transport; restrict the use of private vehicles in cities.
3. The State encourages and creates conditions for Vietnamese and foreign organizations and individuals to invest, do business in, exploit road traffic infrastructure and road transport activities; researching and applying advanced science and technology and training human resources in the field of road traffic.
Article 6. Road transport planning
1. Road transport planning is a specialized field planning, including infrastructure planning, traffic means and road transport planning.
2. The road transport planning is formulated on the basis of the socio-economic development strategy, national defense and security assurance and international integration, in sync with the sector and field planning; closely linked with the planning of other transport majors.
3. Road transport planning is made for at least 10 years and development orientation for at least the next 10 years; adjusted to suit the socio-economic development situation in each period. The planning adjustment must ensure the inheritance of the approved plannings.
After being approved, the road transport planning must be published for relevant agencies, organizations and individuals to know, implement and participate in supervision.
4. Road transport planning must clearly define development objectives, viewpoints, nature and scale; land use needs, capital needs, capital sources, human resources; determine the list of projects and prioritized projects; impact assessment of the planning; determine mechanisms, policies and solutions to implement the planning.
5. The Ministry of Transport shall make planning on road transport nationwide, inter-regional and regional; planning for national highways and expressways shall be submitted to the Prime Minister for approval after consulting the relevant ministries, ministerial-level agencies and provincial-level People's Committees.
6. Provincial-level People's Committees shall organize the formulation and submit to the People's Councils of the same level for decision the planning on road transport under local management. of the Ministry of Transport.
With regard to road transport plannings of centrally run cities of a special type, the People's Committees of the cities shall make and submit them to the People's Councils of the same level for approval and must obtain the opinions of the Ministry of Transport. download, the Ministry of Construction before submitting to the Prime Minister for approval.
7. The planning of other technical infrastructure works must be consistent and synchronous with the planning on road traffic infrastructure.
8. The State ensures state budget capital and adopts policies on mobilizing other capital sources for the formulation of road transport planning.
Article 7. Propagating, disseminating and educating the law on road traffic
1. Information and propaganda agencies shall have to organize the regular and wide dissemination of the law on road traffic to the entire population.
2. People's Committees at all levels shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, have to organize the propagation, dissemination and education of the law on road traffic in their localities, taking the form of propaganda and dissemination. suitable for ethnic minorities.
3. The state management agency in charge of education and training shall have to incorporate the law on road traffic into the curricula in schools and other educational institutions suitable to each discipline and level of study.
4. The Vietnam Fatherland Front and its member organizations are responsible for coordinating with relevant agencies and local authorities in propagating and mobilizing people to comply with the law on road traffic.
5. Agencies and organizations shall have to organize the propagation, dissemination and education of the law on road traffic for cadres, soldiers, civil servants, public employees and other employees under their management.
Family members are responsible for propagating, educating and reminding other members to obey the law on road traffic.
Article 8. Prohibited acts
1. Destroying roads, bridges, tunnels, road ferry terminals, signal lights, poles, signboards, bridge mirrors, median strips, drainage systems and other infrastructure works and equipment road traffic.
2. Illegally digging, drilling and sawing roads; placing, leaving unauthorized obstacles on the road; placing, spreading sharp objects, pouring lubricants on the road; illegally leaving materials, waste, and dumping garbage on the street; open roads, illegally connect to main roads; illegally encroaching on, occupying or using land of roads or road safety corridors; Arbitrarily dismantling manhole covers, dismantling, illegally moving or falsifying road works.
3. Illegally using roadbeds, curbs and sidewalks.
4. Bringing motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles that do not meet technical safety and environmental protection standards to participate in road traffic.
5. Changing the motor vehicle's components, components and accessories to temporarily meet the vehicle's technical standards during inspection.
6. Racing, cheering for car racing, organizing illegal racing, swerving, swinging.
7. Driving a road vehicle with drugs in the body.
8. Operating special-use cars, tractors or motorbikes on the road with alcohol content in blood or breath.
Operating a motorcycle or moped with an alcohol concentration exceeding 50 milligrams per 100 milliliters of blood or 0.25 milligrams per liter of breathing air.
9. Operating a motor vehicle without a driver's license as prescribed.
Operating a special-use motorcycle participating in road traffic without a certificate of training in road traffic law knowledge, a license or a certificate for operating special-use motorbikes.
10. Handing over motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles to people who are not qualified to operate vehicles participating in road traffic.
11. Operating a motor vehicle exceeding the prescribed speed, taking the road, or recklessly overtaking.
12. honking, whistling continuously; honking between 10 p.m. and 5 p.m., air horns, and use of high beams in urban areas and densely populated areas, except for vehicles with priority right on duty under this Law.
13. Installing and using horns and lights not in accordance with the manufacturer's design for each type of motor vehicle; using audio equipment to cause disturbance to traffic safety and public order.
14. Transporting goods banned from circulation, illegally transporting or failing to fully comply with regulations on transportation of dangerous goods and wild animals.
15. Threatening, insulting, competing with or enticing passengers; forcing passengers to use the service unintentionally; conveying, unloading passengers or other acts to evade detection of overloaded vehicles, exceeding the prescribed number of people.
16. Transport business by car when the business conditions are not satisfied as prescribed.
17. Running away after causing an accident to avoid responsibility.
18. When there are conditions, but intentionally do not help people suffering from traffic accidents.
19. Infringing upon the life, health and property of the victim and the person causing the accident.
20. Taking advantage of traffic accidents to assault, threaten, instigate, pressure, disrupt order, and obstruct the handling of traffic accidents.
21. Abusing one's own position, authority or profession or another person's position to violate the law on road traffic.
22. Illegally producing, using or buying and selling license plates of motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles.
23. Acts of violating road traffic rules, other acts causing danger to people and vehicles participating in road traffic.
CHAPTER II
ROAD TRAFFIC RULES
 
Article 9. General rules
1. Traffic participants must go on the right in their own direction, stay in the correct lane and section of the road, and must obey the road signal system.
2. If a car is equipped with a seat belt, the driver and the person sitting in the front row of the car must wear a seat belt.
Article 10. Road signaling system
1. The road signaling system includes signals from traffic conductors; traffic light, signs, road markings, poles or protective walls, barriers.
2. Signals of traffic controllers are as follows:
a) Hands raised vertically to signal to road users in all directions to stop;
b) Two arms or one hand outstretched to signal to road users in front and behind the traffic conductor to stop; road users on the right and left side of the traffic controller are allowed to go;
c) The right hand is raised forward to signal to road users behind and to the right of the traffic conductor to stop; road users in front of the traffic controller may turn right; road users on the left side of the traffic controller may go in all directions; Pedestrians crossing the street must go behind the traffic conductor.
3. Traffic light signals have three colors, specified as follows:
a) The green signal is to go;
b) The red signal means no travel;
c) The yellow signal is to stop before the stop line, unless you have gone beyond the stop line, you can continue; In the case of a flashing yellow signal, you are allowed to go, but you must slow down, pay attention to observe, and yield to pedestrians crossing the street.
4. Road signs include five groups, as follows:
a) Prohibited signs to indicate prohibitions;
b) Danger signs to warn of potentially dangerous situations;
c) Command signs to signal orders to be executed;
d) Signposts to show directions or things to know;
dd) Ancillary signs for additional explanation of prohibited signs, danger signs, command signs and instruction signs.
5. Road markings are lines indicating the division of lanes, position or direction, and stopping position.
6. Piles or protective walls are placed at the edge of dangerous road sections to guide traffic participants to know the safe range of the roadbed and the road's direction.
7. Barriers are placed in places where roads are narrow, bridgeheads, culverts, restricted road sections, dead-end roads to prevent vehicles and people from passing or placed in places where traffic control and control is required.
8. The Minister of Transport shall provide specific regulations on road signs.
Article 11. Obeying road signs
1. Traffic participants must obey the signals and instructions of the road signal system.
2. When there is a traffic controller, the road users must obey the signal of the traffic controller.
3. Where there are permanent signs and temporary signals, road users must obey the orders of the temporary signals.
4. At places with pedestrian crossings, vehicle drivers must observe, slow down and give way to pedestrians and wheelchairs of people with disabilities crossing the street.
In places where there are no road markings for pedestrians, vehicle drivers must observe; if they see pedestrians or wheelchairs of people with disabilities crossing the street, they must slow down and give way to pedestrians or vehicles. wheelchair of the disabled to cross the road to ensure safety.
Article 12. Vehicle speed and distance between vehicles
1. Drivers and operators of special-use motorcycles must comply with regulations on vehicle speed on the road and must keep a safe distance from vehicles running in front of them; where there is a sign "Minimum distance between two vehicles" must keep the distance not less than the number written on the sign.
2. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe vehicle speed and the placement of speed signs; organize the placement of speed signs on national highways.
3. Presidents of provincial-level People's Committees shall organize the placement of speed signs on roads under local management .
Article 13. Use of lanes
1. On a road with multiple lanes for vehicles traveling in the same direction separated by lane dividing lines, the vehicle operator must keep the vehicle in one lane and only change lanes where permitted; When changing lanes, there must be a warning signal and safety must be ensured.
2. On a one-way road with lane markings, rudimentary vehicles must travel on the innermost right lane, motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles travel on the left lane.
3. Vehicles participating in road traffic moving at a lower speed must go to the right.
Article 14. Overtaking
1. Vehicles requesting to pass must be signaled by lights or horns; In urban areas and densely populated areas from 10pm to 5am, only the signal to ask for overtaking is allowed.
2. Vehicles requesting to pass may only pass when there are no obstacles ahead, there are no vehicles traveling in the opposite direction in the intended passage, the vehicle ahead has not signaled to pass other vehicles and has avoided to the right.
3. When there is a vehicle requesting to pass, if it is safe to pass, the driver of the vehicle in front must slow down, keep close to the right of the roadway until the following vehicle has passed, and must not cause obstacles. afraid to overtake vehicles.
4. When overtaking, vehicles must pass to the left, except for the following cases where they are allowed to pass on the right:
a) When the vehicle ahead has signaled to turn left or is turning left;
b) When the tram is running in the middle of the road;
c) When a special-use vehicle is working on the road, it is impossible to pass on the left.
5. Do not overtake a vehicle in one of the following cases:
a) Failing to satisfy the conditions specified in Clause 2 of this Article;
b) On a narrow bridge with one lane;
c) Detours, slopes and locations with limited visibility;
d) At intersections, roads intersect at the same level with railways;
dd) When weather or road conditions are not safe for overtaking;
e) Vehicles entitled to priority are sending priority signals to go on duty.
Article 15. Vehicle navigation
1. When wanting to change direction, the vehicle operator must slow down and signal the turn direction.
2. While changing direction, drivers and operators of special-use motorbikes must yield the right of way to pedestrians and cyclists who are traveling on the road reserved for them and give way to vehicles going in the opposite direction. and only allow the vehicle to change direction when it is observed that it does not cause obstacles or danger to other people and vehicles.
3. In residential areas, drivers and operators of special-use motorbikes may only make U-turns at intersections and where there are signs allowing U-turn.
4. Do not make a U-turn at the pedestrian crossing, on the bridge, at the bridgehead, under the overpass, underground, in the tunnel of the road, on the highway, at the place where the road intersects at the same level with the railway. , Narrow roads, ramps, and curves where visibility is obscured.
Article 16. Backing up
1. When reversing, the operator must look behind, have the necessary signal and only when it is not dangerous to reverse.
2. Do not back up in prohibited areas, on pedestrian crossings, where roads intersect, roads intersect at the same level with railways, where visibility is obscured, in road tunnels , freeway.
Article 17. Avoiding vehicles going in the opposite direction
1. On a road that is not divided into two separate directions, when two vehicles in opposite directions avoid each other, the operator must slow down and let the vehicle go to the right in the direction of his/her vehicle.
2. Cases of giving way when avoiding each other are regulated as follows:
a) Where the road is narrow enough for only one vehicle to run and there is a place to avoid the vehicle, the vehicle closest to the avoidance must enter the avoidance position and give way to the other vehicle;
b) Vehicles going downhill must give way to vehicles going uphill;
c) Vehicles with obstacles ahead must give way to vehicles without obstacles ahead.
3. Motor vehicles traveling in opposite directions may not use high beams.
Article 18. Stopping and parking vehicles on roads
1. Vehicle stop is a temporary stationary state of a vehicle for a necessary period of time to allow people to get on and off the vehicle, load or unload goods or perform other jobs.
2. Parking is the stationary state of vehicles with no time limit.
3. Vehicle drivers, when stopping or parking their vehicles on roads, must comply with the following regulations:
a) There is a signal to warn other vehicle drivers;
b) Let the vehicle stop or park at a place with a wide roadside or a land outside the roadway; in case the roadside is narrow or there is no curb, the vehicle must stop and park close to the right edge of the road in its direction;
c) Where on the road has built a place to stop or park the car or specify the stopping and parking points, the vehicle must be stopped and parked at those positions;
d) After parking, only leave the vehicle when safety measures have been taken; if a parked vehicle occupies a part of the roadway, danger signs must be immediately placed in front and behind the vehicle for other vehicle drivers to know;
dd) Failing to open the car door, leave the car door open or step out of the vehicle without ensuring safety conditions;
e) When stopping, do not turn off the engine and do not leave the driving position;
g) Vehicles parked on ramps must be fitted with wheels.
4. Vehicle drivers may not stop or park their vehicles at the following locations:
a) On the left side of a one-way street;
b) On curved sections and near the top of slopes, visibility is obscured;
c) On the bridge, under the overpass;
d) Parallel to another stopped or parked vehicle;
dd) On the part of the road for pedestrians to cross;
e) At the intersection and within 5 meters from the edge of the intersection;
g) Bus stops;
h) In front of the gate and within 5 meters of both sides of the gate of the headquarters of the agency or organization;
i) Where the road section is only wide enough for one lane;
k) Within the safety zone of the railway;
l) Obscuring road signs.
Article 19. Stopping, parking on the street
Vehicle operators when stopping or parking vehicles on the street must comply with the provisions of Article 18 of this Law and the following provisions:
1. Vehicles must be stopped and parked close to the roadside and sidewalk on the right in their direction; The nearest wheel must not be more than 0.25 meters away from the curb or sidewalk and must not obstruct or endanger traffic. In case the street is narrow, the vehicle must be stopped or parked at a position at least 20 meters away from the parked car on the other side of the road.
2. Do not stop or park on the tramway, on the mouth of the sewer, the tunnel mouth of the telephone line, high voltage electricity, a place reserved for fire trucks to collect water. Vehicles are not allowed to be parked on the roadway or sidewalk in violation of regulations.
Article 20. Loading of goods on road vehicles
1. Goods loaded on the vehicle must be neatly tied, firmly tied, not scattered along the road, not dragged on the road and not obstructed the vehicle's control.
2. When loading goods in front and behind the vehicle, there must be a red flag during the day, and a red light at night or when it is dark.
3. The Minister of Transport shall specify the loading of goods on land vehicles.
Article 21. Case of carrying people on cargo cars
1. Passengers may only be transported on cargo vehicles in the following cases:
a) Carrying people to perform natural disaster prevention and control tasks or perform urgent tasks; transport officers and soldiers of the people's armed forces on duty; transport the victim to emergency;
b) Transporting road maintenance and repair workers; carrying people to practice driving on practice cars; carrying people marching in groups;
c) Release people from dangerous areas or in other emergencies as prescribed by law.
2. Passenger cars in the cases specified in Clause 1 of this Article must have fixed containers to ensure safety when participating in traffic.
Article 22. Priority rights of certain types of vehicles
1. The following vehicles have the right to go ahead of other vehicles when crossing an intersection from any direction in order:
a) Fire trucks on duty;
b) Military vehicles, police cars on urgent duty, convoys led by police cars;
c) The ambulance is performing emergency duty;
d) Vehicles for dyke protection, vehicles to go on duty to remedy natural disasters, epidemics or vehicles to go on duty in a state of emergency as prescribed by law;
d) Convoy of hearses.
2. Vehicles specified at Points a, b, c and d, Clause 1 of this Article, when on duty, must have signals of horns, flags and lights as prescribed; no speed restrictions; are allowed to enter the road in the opposite direction, other roads can be followed, even when there is a red light signal and must only follow the instructions of the traffic controller.
The government specifically regulates the signal of the vehicle that has the right of priority.
3. When there is a signal of the vehicle having the right of way, traffic participants must quickly slow down, avoid or stop close to the right side of the road to give way. Do not obstruct the vehicle with the right-of-way.
Article 23. Crossing the ferry, crossing the pontoon bridge
1. When arriving at the ferry terminal or pontoon bridge, the vehicles must line up in an orderly manner, in the right place, without obstructing traffic.
2. When getting off the ferry, being on the ferry, and when disembarking, everyone must disembark, except for the operator of motor vehicles, special-use motorcycles, the sick, the elderly and the disabled.
3. Motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles must get off the ferry first, rudimentary vehicles and pedestrians must get off the ferry later; When disembarking, pedestrians go first, vehicles follow the instructions of the traffic controller.
4. The order of priority for ferry crossings and pontoon bridges is as follows:
a) Vehicles having the right of priority specified in Clause 1, Article 22 of this Law ;
b) Mail carrier;
c) Vehicles carrying fresh food;
d) Public passenger vehicles.
In case vehicles of the same type give priority to the ferry terminal or pontoon bridge, the vehicle that comes first can pass first.
Article 24. Yield at intersections
When approaching an intersection, the vehicle operator must slow down and give way according to the following regulations:
1. At an intersection where there is no signal to follow a roundabout, they must give way to vehicles coming from the right;
2. At the intersection where there is a signal to follow the circle roundabouts, must give way to vehicles going on the left;
3. At the intersection between the non-priority road and the priority road or between the branch road and the main road, the vehicle traveling from the non-priority road or the branch road must give way to the vehicle traveling on the priority road or main road from any which direction to go.
Article 25. Traveling on road sections that intersect at the same level with railways, road bridges with railways
1. On the road section that intersects at the same level with the railway, the road bridge is shared with the railway, railway vehicles have the right to go first.
2. At the place where the road intersects at the same level with the railway, there are signal lights, barriers and signaling bells, when the red signal lights are on, the bell rings, the barriers are moving or closed, road users must stop on their side of the road and at a safe distance from the barrier; When the signal light is off, the barrier is fully open, the bell to signal stop is allowed to pass.
3. At the place where the road intersects at the same level with the railway, there are only signal lights or signal bells. When the red signal light has turned on or the bell rings, road users must stop immediately. and keep a minimum distance of 5 meters from the nearest rail; only when the signal light has turned off or the stop signal will go through.
4. At the place where the road intersects at the same level with the railway without signal lights, barriers and signal bells, road users must observe both sides when it is certain that there are no railway vehicles. If you see an oncoming railway vehicle, you must stop and keep a distance of at least 5 meters from the nearest rail and only when the railway vehicle has passed.
5. When vehicles participating in road traffic are damaged at the intersection of the road at the same level with the railway or within the railway safety range, the vehicle operator must by all means put a signal on the road as quickly as possible. At least 500 meters away from the railway station to both sides to notify the railway vehicle operator and to find a way to notify the nearest railway station and railway manager, and at the same time must take all measures to quickly remove the vehicle from the railway station. railway safety range.
6. Persons present at places where vehicles participating in road traffic are damaged on road sections at the same level as railways are responsible for assisting vehicle drivers in taking vehicles out of road safety ranges. iron.
Article 26. Traffic on expressways
1. Drivers and operators of special-use motorcycles on highways, in addition to complying with the traffic rules specified in this Law, they must also comply with the following: the following provisions:
a) When entering an expressway, there must be a signal to get in and give way to vehicles running on the road, when it is safe for the vehicle to enter the line of traffic in the lane adjacent to the outer edge, if there is an acceleration lane, it must be drive the vehicle in that lane before entering the expressway lane;
b) When exiting the expressway, the vehicle must gradually change to the right lane. If there is a speeding lane, the vehicle must be allowed to run in that lane before leaving the expressway;
c) Do not allow the vehicle to drive in the emergency stop lane and the roadside;
d) Do not allow the vehicle to run above the maximum speed and below the minimum speed indicated on the signboard or painted on the road surface.
2. Drivers and operators of special-use motorcycles Vehicles must be kept a safe distance apart inscribed on the signboard.
3. Only stopping and parking vehicles at the specified places; In case the vehicle is forced to stop or park at the wrong place, the driver must take the vehicle out of the roadway; if it is not possible, he must give a signal to other drivers to know.
4. Pedestrians, rudimentary vehicles, mopeds, mopeds and tractors; Special-use motorcycles with a design speed of less than 70 km/h may not enter the expressway, except for people, vehicles and equipment serving the management and maintenance of the expressway.
Article 27. Traffic in road tunnels
Drivers of vehicles in road tunnels, in addition to complying with the traffic rules prescribed in this Law, must also comply with the following provisions:
1. Motor vehicles and special-use motorcycles must have their lights on; rudimentary car must be turned on lights or signaling objects;
2. Only stop and park the vehicle at the specified place.
Article 28. Load capacity and limit gauge of roads
1. Vehicle drivers must comply with the regulations on the load, the size limit of the road and subject to the inspection of the competent authority.
2. In special cases, vehicles that are overloaded, oversized or oversized, or tracked vehicles that cause damage to the road surface may be circulated on the road but must be licensed by the competent road management agency. and must take mandatory measures to protect roads and ensure traffic safety.
3. The Minister of Transport shall stipulate the load and gauge limits of roads and announce the load and gauge limits of national highways; stipulates the issuance of circulation permits for overloaded and oversized vehicles, tracked vehicles that cause damage to the road surface. 
4. Presidents of provincial-level People's Committees shall announce the load and gauge limits of roads under local management.
Article 29. Towing vehicles and trailers
1. An automobile may only be towed with another car or special-use motorcycle when this vehicle cannot run on its own and must ensure the following provisions:
a) The towed vehicle must be operated by a driver and the vehicle's steering system must be valid;
b) The connection between the trailer and the towed vehicle must be sure and safe; in case the braking system of the towed vehicle is no longer effective, the towing vehicles must be connected by rigid connecting rods;
c) The front of the towed vehicle and the rear of the towed vehicle must have signs.
2. The trailer must have a total weight greater than the total weight of the trailer or must have an effective braking system for the trailer.
3. Not to perform the following acts:
a) Trailers towing trailers, semi-trailers towing more trailers or other vehicles;
b) Carrying people on towed vehicles;
c) Towing rudimentary vehicles, mopeds and mopeds.
Article 30. Drivers and occupants of motorbikes and mopeds
1. Operators of two-wheeled motorcycles or mopeds may only carry one person, except for the following cases, where they may carry a maximum of two people:
a) Transport the patient to the emergency room;
b) Escorting people who commit illegal acts;
c) Children under 14 years old.
2. Drivers, people sitting on two-wheeled motorbikes, three-wheeled motorbikes and mopeds must wear helmets with properly fastened straps.
3. Operators of two-wheeled motorcycles, three-wheeled motorbikes or mopeds are not allowed to commit the following acts:
a) Ride in a horizontal line;
b) Driving into the roadway for pedestrians and other vehicles;
c) Using umbrellas, cell phones, audio equipment, excluding hearing aids;
d) Using the vehicle to pull or push other vehicles or objects, carry, carry and carry bulky objects;
dd) Let go of both hands or ride on one wheel for a two-wheeler, with two wheels for a three-wheeler;
e) Other acts causing traffic disorder and safety.
4. Persons riding on two-wheeled motorbikes, three-wheeled motorbikes or mopeds while participating in traffic are not allowed to commit the following acts:
a) Carrying or carrying bulky objects;
b) Using umbrellas;
c) Clinging, pulling or pushing other vehicles;
d) Standing on the saddle, rack or sitting on the handlebars;
d) Other acts causing traffic disorder and safety.
Article 31. Drivers, people sitting on bicycles, other rudimentary vehicle operators
1. Bicycle operators can only carry one person, except for the case of carrying an additional child under 7 years old, they can carry a maximum of two people.
Bicycle operators must comply with the provisions of Clause 3, Article 30 of this Law ; People sitting on bicycles when participating in traffic must comply with the provisions of Clause 4, Article 30 of this Law .
2. Drivers and occupants of motorized bicycles must wear properly fitted helmets.
3. Drivers of other rudimentary vehicles must let their vehicles go in a single row. Where there is a road for rudimentary vehicles, they must follow the prescribed road section; When traveling at night, there must be signals in front and behind the vehicle. Operators of animal-drawn carts must take measures to ensure road hygiene.
4. Goods loaded on rudimentary vehicles must ensure safety, not obstruct traffic and obscure the driver's view.
Article 32. Pedestrians
1. Pedestrians must walk on the sidewalks and sidewalks; In case there is no sidewalk or curb on the road, pedestrians must walk close to the edge of the road.
2. Pedestrians may only cross the street at places with signal lights, road markings or overpasses and tunnels for pedestrians and must comply with guiding signals.
3. In case there are no signal lights, no road markings, overpasses or tunnels for pedestrians, pedestrians must observe oncoming vehicles and only cross the road when ensuring safety and taking responsibility. ensure safety when crossing the road.
4. Pedestrians must not cross the median strip or hang on to the running traffic; When carrying bulky objects, they must ensure safety and not cause obstacles to people and vehicles participating in road traffic.
5. Children under 7 years of age, when crossing urban roads or roads frequently visited by motor vehicles, must be led by an adult; Everyone is responsible for helping children under 7 years old when crossing the street.
Article 33. Disabled people, elderly and weak people participating in traffic
1. Persons with disabilities using non-motorized wheelchairs may walk on sidewalks and pedestrian crossings.
2. Blind people when walking on the road must be led or have tools to signal to other people that they are blind people.
3. Everyone has the responsibility to help the disabled and the elderly when crossing the street.
Article 34. People who lead animals on roads
1. The person who leads the animal on the road must keep the animal close to the road edge and ensure the hygiene on the road; in case animals need to cross the road, they must observe and only cross the road when there are sufficient safety conditions.
2. Animals are not allowed to enter the roadway reserved for motor vehicles.
Article 35. Other activities on roads
1. Organization of cultural activities, sports, parades and festivals on roads must comply with the following regulations:
a) Agencies and organizations that wish to use roads to conduct cultural, sports, parades or festivals must obtain written agreement from the competent road management agency on a plan for protection. ensure traffic before applying for permission to organize the above activities in accordance with the law;
b) In case the traffic needs to be restricted or banned, the road management agency must issue a notice of the traffic diversion plan; Agencies and organizations wishing to use the road specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article must post notices on the mass media and take measures to ensure order and safety. for people and vehicles participating in road traffic;
c) The People's Committee of the locality where cultural, sports, parade and festival activities are organized shall direct the local functional agencies to organize the division of traffic lanes and ensure traffic in the area where the activities take place. cultural activities, sports, parades, festivals.
2. Not to perform the following acts:
a) Market meetings, buying and selling goods on roads;
b) Illegal gathering of people on roads;
c) Letting animals graze on roads;
d) Drying paddy, rice, straw, agricultural products or leaving other objects on the road;
dd) Placing advertising signs on the land of the road;
e) Installing signs, billboards or other devices that reduce attention, cause confusion with signboard contents or obstruct traffic participants;
g) Obscuring traffic signs and lights;
h) Using slides, rollers, and similar devices on the driveway;
i) Other acts of obstructing traffic.
Article 36. Street use and other activities on the street
1. Roadbeds and sidewalks are only used for traffic purposes.
2. Other activities on the streets must comply with the provisions of Clause 1, Article 35 of this Law . In special cases, the temporary use of part of the roadbed or pavement for other purposes shall be determined by the People's Committee of the People's Committee. Provincial level regulations but must not affect traffic order and safety.
3. Not to perform the following acts:
a) The acts specified in Clause 2, Article 35 of this Law ;
b) Dumping garbage or waste at the wrong place;
c) Illegally building or placing podiums and platforms on the road.
Article 37. Traffic organization and traffic control
1. Traffic organization includes the following contents:
a) To divide lanes, separate streams, separate routes and regulate travel time for people and vehicles participating in road traffic;
b) To prescribe no-go road sections, one-way roads, places where stopping, parking, and turning around are prohibited; install road signs;
c) Notify when there is a change in traffic flow, route, temporary or permanent travel time; implement rescue measures when incidents occur and other measures on road travel to ensure smooth and safe traffic.
2. Traffic organization responsibilities are specified as follows:
a) The Minister of Transport is responsible for organizing traffic on the national highway system;
b) Provincial-level People's Committee presidents are responsible for organizing traffic on road systems under their management.
3. Traffic police responsibilities are as follows:
a) Command and control traffic on the road; guide and compel traffic participants to obey traffic rules; 
b) When there are situations causing traffic jams or other necessary requirements for ensuring security and order, they may temporarily suspend travel in certain sections of the road, redistribute traffic, re-route and other places. stop the car, park the car.
Article 38. Responsibilities of individuals, agencies and organizations when traffic accidents occur.
1. Vehicle drivers and those directly involved in the accident have the following responsibilities:
a) Immediately stop the vehicle; keep the scene; give first aid to victims and must be present at the request of competent agencies;
b) Stay at the place of the accident until the arrival of the police, unless the driver of the vehicle is also injured and must be taken to the emergency room or the victim must be taken to the emergency room. or for life-threatening reasons, but must immediately report to the nearest police agency;
c) Provide authentic information about the accident to the competent authority.
2. Persons present at the place of the accident have the following responsibilities:
a) Protect the scene;
b) Promptly help and treat victims;
c) Immediately notify the nearest police, health agency or People's Committee;
d) Protect the property of the victim;
dd) Provide authentic information about the accident at the request of the competent authority.
3. Drivers of other vehicles, when passing through the accident scene, are responsible for transporting the victim to the emergency room. Vehicles entitled to priority, vehicles carrying people enjoying diplomatic and consular privileges and immunities are not required to comply with the provisions of this Clause.
4. When receiving news about the accident, the police authority shall send people to the scene to investigate the accident and coordinate with the road management agency and the local People's Committee in ensuring traffic. transparent and safe.
5. The People's Committee of the commune where the accident occurs is responsible for promptly notifying the police and medical authorities coming to handle and settle the accident; organize the rescue and help of victims, protect the scene, and protect the property of the victims; in the case of a dead person whose whereabouts are unknown, no relatives or relatives are unable to bury them, after the competent state agency has completed the work as prescribed by law and agreed to allow burial, the commune-level People's Committee is responsible for organizing the burial.
In case the accident is beyond the ability to handle, the commune-level People's Committee must promptly report it to the superior-level People's Committee.
6. The Ministry of Public Security is responsible for making statistics, synthesizing and building a database of information on road traffic accidents, and providing it to agencies, organizations and individuals in accordance with law.
CHAPTER III
ROAD TRAFFIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Article 39. Classification of roads
1. Road network the set is divided into six systems, including national highways, provincial roads, district roads, commune roads, urban roads and special-use roads, prescribed as follows:
a) National highway is the road connecting Hanoi capital with the provincial administrative center; roads connecting provincial-level administrative centers of three or more localities; connecting roads from international seaports, international airports to international border gates, main border gates on land; roads have a particularly important position for the socio-economic development of the region or region;
b) Provincial road means the road connecting the administrative center of the province with the administrative center of the district or the administrative center of the neighboring province; Road plays an important role in the socio-economic development of the province;
c) District road means the road connecting the administrative center of the district with the administrative center of the commune, cluster of communes or the administrative center of the neighboring district; road plays an important role in the socio-economic development of the district;
d) Communal road means the road connecting the administrative center of the commune with the villages, hamlets, hamlets and equivalent units or the road connecting with neighboring communes; road plays an important role in the socio-economic development of the commune;
dd) Urban road means a road within the administrative boundaries of an inner city or inner city;
e) Special-use road means a road dedicated to serving the transportation and travel of one or several agencies, organizations or individuals.
2. The authority to classify and regulate road systems is regulated as follows:
a) The national highway system shall be decided by the Minister of Transport;
b) The system of provincial and urban roads shall be decided by the President of the People's Committee of the province after reaching agreement with the Ministry of Transport (for provincial roads) and with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Construction. (for urban roads);
c) The system of district and commune roads shall be decided by the chairperson of the district-level People's Committee after being approved by the chairperson of the provincial-level People's Committee;
d) The system of special-use roads shall be decided by agencies, organizations and individuals having special-use roads after obtaining written approval from the Minister of Transport for special-use roads connecting to national highways. ; written approval of the President of the People's Committee of the province for special-use roads connected to provincial roads, urban roads and district roads; written approval of the Chairman of the district-level People's Committee for the special-use road connected to the commune road.
Article 40. Naming and numbering of roads
1. Roads are named or numbered as follows:
a) Street names are named after famous people, people with meritorious services or names of monuments, historical or cultural events, place names or customary names; road numbers are set according to natural numbers accompanied by letters if necessary; in case an urban road coincides with a national highway, both the name of the urban road and the name and number of the national highway shall be used;
b) Names and numbers of roads participating in the regional and international road networks shall comply with agreements between Vietnam and relevant countries. Roads connected to the regional road network and international roads must use both the name and number of the domestic road and the name and number of the road in the region or the international road.
2. The naming and numbering of roads shall be decided by agencies competent to classify roads; Particularly for urban and provincial roads, the naming shall be decided by the People's Council of the province on the basis of the proposal of the People's Committee of the same level.
3. The Government shall specify the naming and numbering of roads.
Article 41. Road technical standards
1. Roads are divided by technical grade, including expressways and other technical grades.
2. Newly built roads must satisfy technical standards of each road grade; roads that are being exploited and have not yet entered grade must be renovated and upgraded to meet technical standards of appropriate road grades; for special-use roads, separate standards must also be applied as prescribed by law.
3. Responsibilities of ministries are specified as follows:
a) The Ministry of Transport shall elaborate and guide the implementation of technical standards at all levels;
b) The Ministry of Science and Technology promulgates national technical standards for road grades.
4. In case of application of foreign road technical standards, it must be approved by a competent state management agency.
Article 42. Land fund for road traffic infrastructure
1. The land fund for road traffic infrastructure is determined in the planning on road traffic infrastructure. Provincial-level People's Committees shall determine and manage the land fund reserved for road infrastructure construction projects according to the approved planning.
2. The ratio of urban traffic land fund to urban construction land must be between 16% and 26%. The Government shall specify the proportion of land fund suitable to the type of urban area.
Article 43. Scope of land for roads
1. The land area reserved for roads includes land of roads and land of road safety corridors.
2. Within the land area reserved for roads, other works may not be built, except for a number of essential works that cannot be located outside that scope but must be permitted by a competent authority, including restoration works. defense and security services, works in service of road management and exploitation, telecommunications, electricity, water supply and drainage pipelines, gasoline, oil and gas.
3. Within the land area of the road safety corridor, apart from complying with the provisions of Clause 2 of this Article, it may temporarily be used for agricultural or advertising purposes but must not affect the safety of works. road traffic safety. The placement of billboards on the land of the road safety corridor must be approved in writing by the competent road management agency.
4. People who are currently using legally recognized land and that land is located within the road safety corridor may continue to use the land according to the defined purposes and must not obstruct the safety protection. construction road.
In case the land use affects the safety protection of road works, the work owners and land users must take remedial measures. provisions of law.
5. The Government shall specify the extent of land reserved for roads, the use and exploitation of land for road safety corridors, and the construction of essential works within the land area reserved for roads.
Article 44. Assurance of technical requirements and traffic safety of road works
1. Newly constructed, upgraded and renovated road works must ensure technical standards and traffic safety conditions for people and vehicles participating in road traffic, including pedestrians and people with disabilities. disability. Constructed urban roads must have sidewalks, road sections, overpasses, tunnels and organize traffic for pedestrians and people with disabilities to travel safely and conveniently.
2. Road works must be appraised for traffic safety from the time of project formulation, design, construction, before and during operation. Investment deciders and investors are responsible for receiving traffic safety appraisal results for approval to add to the project.
3. Urban areas, industrial parks, economic zones, residential areas, trade-service zones and other works must have a system of collection roads built outside the road safety corridors; ensure the distance from the national highway as prescribed by the Government.
4. The connection is regulated as follows:
a) In case there is a branch road, the collection road must connect to the branch road;
b) In case a branch road or a collection road connects directly to the main road, the connection point must be approved by the competent road state management agency from the time of project formulation and design;
c) The connection of roads from urban areas, industrial parks, economic zones, residential areas, trade-service zones and other works to roads according to regulations of the Minister of Transport.
5. Beside the national highway passing through residential areas, there must be a collection road to serve the people's living requirements.
Article 45. Road signaling works
1. Road signaling works include:
a) Traffic lights;
b) Signboards;
c) Piles, barriers or protective walls;
d) Road markings;
dd) The kilometer column;
e) Other signaling works.
2. Before being put into operation, roads must be fully installed with road signaling works according to approved designs.
3. Not to attach to road sign works contents unrelated to the meaning and purpose of road sign works.
Article 46. Investment in construction and exploitation of road traffic infrastructure
1. Investment in construction of road traffic infrastructure means investment in new construction, upgrading and renovation of road infrastructure.
2. The investment in the construction of road traffic infrastructure must be consistent with the road transport planning already approved by the competent authority; comply with the order of construction investment management and other provisions of law; ensure technical grade for roads, landscape, and environmental protection.
3. Vietnamese and foreign organizations and individuals may invest in the construction, business and exploitation of road traffic infrastructure in accordance with law.
4. Competent People's Committees shall assume the prime responsibility for organizing site clearance in accordance with land recovery decisions of competent state agencies and create favorable conditions for organizations and individuals to invest in construction, business and exploitation of road transport infrastructure.
5. After being built, upgraded or renovated, the road traffic infrastructure must be tested, accepted and decided to be put into operation by a competent authority according to regulations.
Article 47. Construction of works on roads currently in use
1. Construction of works on roads currently in use may only be carried out when obtaining permits from competent state agencies and strictly complying with the contents of the permits and the provisions of the law on construction.
2. During the construction process, the construction unit must arrange signal, make temporary barriers at construction sites and take measures to ensure smooth and safe traffic.
3. Construction of works on urban roads must comply with the provisions of Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article and the following regulations:
a) Only dig roads to repair works or build new technical tunnels along the road or across the road, but must have an annual plan agreed in advance with the road management agency, unless there is a sudden emergency. export;
b) There must be a construction plan and construction time appropriate to the characteristics of each street so as not to cause traffic jams;
c) When the construction is completed, the road part must be returned to its original condition; for underground works, the completion dossier must be made and transferred to the road management agency.
4. The construction unit fails to take measures to ensure smooth and safe traffic According to the regulations, for the occurrence of traffic accidents, traffic jams, serious environmental pollution, they must take responsibility according to the provisions of law.
Article 48. Road management and maintenance
1. Road maintenance is the performance of road maintenance and repair works in order to maintain the technical standards of the road being operated.
2. Roads put into operation must be managed and maintained with the following contents:
a) Monitoring the status of road works; traffic organization; examine and inspect the protection of road traffic infrastructure;
b) Regular maintenance, periodic repair and unexpected repair.
3. Responsibilities for road management and maintenance are specified as follows:
a) The national highway system is responsible for the Ministry of Transport;
b) The system of provincial and urban roads is responsible for the provincial People's Committee. The management and maintenance of the system of district and commune roads shall be prescribed by the provincial People's Committees;
c) Special-use roads, roads not managed and exploited by the State, roads that are invested and built not with capital from the state budget and managed and maintained by investors according to regulations.
4. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe the management and maintenance of roads.
Article 49. Financial sources for road management and maintenance
1. Financial sources for management and maintenance of national highways and local roads are secured from the road maintenance fund.
Financial sources for management and maintenance of special-use roads, air roads under the management and exploitation of the State, roads invested and built are not equal to capital sources from the state budget and are responsible for managing and exploiting organizations and individuals. duty.
2. The road maintenance fund is formed from the following sources:
a) Annually allocated state budget;
b) Revenues related to road use and other revenue sources as prescribed by law.
3. The Government shall specify the establishment, management and use of road maintenance funds at central and local levels.
Article 50. Construction of road crossings at the same level between roads and railways
The construction of a road crossing at the same level between roads and railways must be permitted by a competent state agency; have designs that ensure technical standards and traffic safety conditions approved by competent state agencies according to regulations of the Minister of Transport .
Article 51. Bus stations, parking lots, rest stops, vehicle load checking stations, road toll stations
1. In urban areas, when building offices of agencies, schools, hospitals, trade-service centers, culture and residential areas, there must be enough parking spaces suitable to the scale of the works.
2. Bus stations, parking lots and rest stops must be built according to the planning approved by competent state agencies, ensuring technical standards. 
3. Toll stations are places where toll collection is carried out for vehicles participating in road traffic, built according to plannings or investment projects approved by competent state agencies. The operation of toll stations must ensure smooth and safe traffic.
4. Vehicle load inspection station is the place where the road management agency collects, analyzes and evaluates the impact of vehicle load and vehicle size limit on road safety; inspecting and handling violations of vehicles over the limit, overloading allowed by roads and tracked vehicles circulating on roads, built according to the planning made by the Ministry of Transport and submitted to the Prime Minister Government approved.
In case of necessity, in order to protect the road traffic infrastructure, the Minister of Transport shall decide to establish a temporary vehicle load inspection station.
5. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe technical regulations on bus stations, parking lots, rest stops, toll stations, and vehicle load inspection stations; regulations on organization and operation of toll stations and vehicle load inspection stations .
Article 52. Protection of road traffic infrastructure
1. Protection of road traffic infrastructure includes activities to ensure safety and longevity of road works, measures to prevent, stop and handle acts of infringing upon road infrastructure. .
The scope of protection of road traffic infrastructure includes land of roads, road safety corridors, aerial parts, underground parts, and underwater parts related to construction and traffic safety. road traffic.
2. Organizations and individuals permitted to construct, renovate, expand and maintain works and conduct other activities within the scope of protection of road traffic infrastructure must comply with the provisions of law. .
3. The road work management unit is responsible for ensuring the technical safety of the works and is jointly responsible for traffic accidents caused by the quality of work management and maintenance; in case of detecting that the works are damaged or are at risk of causing traffic insecurity, they must promptly handle and repair them, take measures to prevent, combat and promptly overcome the consequences caused by natural disasters to the public. road program.
4. Responsibilities for protection of road traffic infrastructure are specified as follows:
a) The Ministry of Transport organizes and guides the protection of road traffic infrastructure; examine and inspect the implementation of the provisions of the law on management and protection of road traffic infrastructure;
b) The Ministry of Public Security directs and guides the police force to inspect and handle violations of the law on protection of road traffic infrastructure according to its competence;
c) People's Committees at all levels organize the protection of road traffic infrastructure within their respective localities; protect the road traffic safety corridor according to the provisions of law;
d) Ministries and ministerial-level agencies shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, coordinate in the protection of road traffic infrastructure;
dd) The Government shall prescribe the coordination among ministries, ministerial-level agencies and People's Committees in the protection of road traffic infrastructure.
5. Those who detect damaged or infringed road works or encroached road safety corridors must promptly report them to the People's Committees, road management agencies or police offices near them. most to handle; when necessary, take measures to immediately signal to traffic participants. Upon receiving the news, the responsible agency must quickly take remedial measures to ensure smooth and safe traffic.
CHAPTER IV
VEHICLES JOINING ROAD TRAFFIC
Article 53. Conditions for motor vehicles to participate in traffic
1. Cars of the right type and type allowed to participate in traffic must satisfy the following regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection:
a) Having a sufficient effective braking system;
b) There is an effective navigation system;
c) The steering wheel of the car is on the left side of the vehicle; in the case of foreigner's cars registered in foreign countries with right-hand drive in traffic in Vietnam, comply with the Government's regulations;
d) Having enough near and far lights, license plate lights, brake lights and signal lights;
dd) Having tires of the right size and technical standards of each type of vehicle;
e) Having enough rear-view mirrors and other equipment and devices to ensure visibility for the operator;
g) Windshield and door glass are safety glass;
h) Having a horn with the correct volume according to technical regulations;
i) Having enough silencer, smoke reducer and other equipment and equipment to ensure emissions and noise according to environmental regulations;
k) Structures must be durable and ensure stable operation.
2. Two-wheeled motorcycles, three-wheeled motorcycles, and mopeds of the right type permitted to participate in traffic must ensure the regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection specified at points a, b, d, dd, e, h, i and k, Clause 1 of this Article.
3. Motor vehicles must be registered and have number plates issued by competent state agencies.
4. The Government shall stipulate the useful life of motor vehicles.
5. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe the quality, technical safety and environmental protection of motor vehicles permitted to participate in traffic, except for motor vehicles of the army and police used for national purposes. room, security.
Article 54. Issuance and revocation of motor vehicle registration and number plates
1. Motor vehicles of lawful origin, ensuring standards of quality, technical safety and environmental protection in accordance with this Law, shall be granted registration and number plates by competent state agencies.
2. The Minister of Public Security shall stipulate and organize the grant and revocation of registration and number plates of motor vehicles; The Minister of National Defense shall stipulate and organize the granting and revocation of registrations and number plates of military motor vehicles used for national defense purposes.
Article 55. Ensuring regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection of motor vehicles participating in road traffic
1. The production, assembly, renovation, repair, maintenance and import of motor vehicles participating in road traffic must comply with regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection. It is not allowed to convert other cars into passenger cars.
2. Vehicle owners are not allowed to change the vehicle's structure, components and systems by themselves that are not in accordance with the manufacturer's design or the renovation design approved by a competent authority.
3. Automobiles and trailers, semi-trailers towed by automobiles participating in road traffic must be periodically inspected for technical safety and environmental protection (hereinafter referred to as inspection).
4. The head of the registration establishment and the person directly performing the inspection shall be responsible for certifying the inspection results.
5. Vehicle owners and car drivers are responsible for maintaining the technical safety of their vehicles according to prescribed standards when participating in road traffic between two inspection periods.
6. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe conditions, standards and grant permits to motor vehicle registration establishments; regulate and organize the inspection of motor vehicles. The Minister of National Defense and the Minister of Public Security shall prescribe and organize the inspection of motor vehicles of the army and police used for defense and security purposes.
Article 56. Conditions for entry into traffic of rudimentary vehicles
1. When participating in traffic, rudimentary vehicles must ensure road traffic safety conditions.
2. Provincial-level People's Committees shall specify the conditions and scope of operation of rudimentary vehicles in their respective localities.
Article 57. Conditions for participation in traffic of special-use motorbikes
1. Ensure the following regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection:
a) Having a sufficient effective braking system;
b) There is an effective navigation system;
c) Having lights;
d) Ensure visibility for the operator;
dd) Specialized parts must be installed in the right position, firmly, ensuring safety when moving;
e) Ensuring emissions and noise according to environmental standards.
2. Having registration and affixing number plates issued by competent state agencies .
3. Operating within the prescribed range, ensuring safety for people, vehicles and road works when moving.
4. The production, assembly, renovation, repair and import of special-use motorcycles must comply with regulations on quality, technical safety and environmental protection.
5. Vehicle owners and drivers of special-use motorbikes are responsible for maintaining technical safety and inspecting according to regulations for special-use motorbikes when participating in road traffic.
6. The Minister of Transport shall specify quality, technical safety and environmental protection, grant and revoke registration and number plates; prescribe the list of special-use motorcycles subject to inspection and organize the inspection; The Minister of National Defense and the Minister of Public Security shall stipulate and organize the grant and revocation of registration, number plates and inspection of special-use motorcycles used by the army and police for national defense and security purposes.
CHAPTER V
ROAD TRAFFIC VEHICLES DRIVERS
Article 58. Conditions of drivers participating in traffic
1. Drivers participating in traffic must be of the age and health prescribed in Article 60 of this Law and have a driving license suitable for the type of vehicle they are allowed to drive issued by a competent state agency.
Learners who practice driving when participating in traffic must practice on a practice car and have a teacher sponsor the steering wheel.
2. When operating a vehicle, the driver must carry the following papers:
a) Vehicle registration;
b) Driving license for motor vehicle operators specified in Article 59 of this Law ;
c) Certificate of inspection of technical safety and environmental protection for motor vehicles specified in Article 55 of this Law ;
d) Certificate of civil liability insurance of the motor vehicle owner.
Article 59. Driving license
1. Based on the type, engine capacity, load capacity and utility of the motor vehicle, driving license is classified into indefinite driving license and definite driving license.
2. An indefinite driving license includes the following classes:
a) Class A1 granted to drivers of two-wheeled motorcycles with a cylinder capacity of between 50 cm 3 and under 175 cm 3 ;
b) Class A2 granted to drivers of two-wheeled motorcycles with a cylinder capacity of 175 cm3 or more and vehicles specified for A1 class driving licenses;
c) Class A3 is granted to drivers of three-wheeled motorcycles, vehicles prescribed for A1-class driving licenses and similar vehicles.
3. Persons with disabilities control three-wheeled motorcycles for disabled people are granted A1 class driving licenses .
4. Term driving licenses include the following classes:
a) Class A4 granted to tractor drivers with a tonnage of up to 1,000 kg;
b) Class B1 is granted to non-drivers who operate passenger cars with up to 9 seats; trucks and tractors with a tonnage of less than 3,500 kg;
c) Class B2 is granted to drivers who operate passenger cars with up to 9 seats; trucks and tractors with a tonnage of less than 3,500 kg;
d) Class C granted to drivers of trucks and tractors with a tonnage of 3,500 kg or more and vehicles specified for driving licenses of classes B1, B2;
dd) Class D granted to drivers of passenger cars with 10 to 30 seats and vehicles specified for class B1, B2, C driving licenses;
e) Class E granted to drivers of passenger cars with over 30 seats and vehicles specified for class B1, B2, C, D driving licenses;
g) Class FB2, FD, FE driving licenses are granted to drivers who already have B2, D, and E classes to drive the vehicles specified for these class driving licenses when towing trailers. or passenger cars connecting wagons; FC class is granted to drivers who already have a class C driver's license to drive vehicles specified for class C when pulling trailers and semi-trailers.
5. The driving license is valid for use within the territory of Vietnam and the territory of the country or territory where Vietnam has signed a commitment to recognize each other's driving licenses.
Article 60. Age and health of the driver
1. The age of the driver is regulated as follows:
a) Persons aged full 16 years or older may drive motorcycles with a cylinder capacity of less than 50 cm 3 ;
b) Persons aged full 18 years or older may drive two-wheeled motorcycles, three-wheeled motorcycles with a cylinder capacity of 50 cm3 or more and vehicles of similar structure; trucks and tractors with a tonnage of less than 3,500 kg; passenger cars with up to 9 seats;
c) Persons aged full 21 years or older may drive trucks or tractors with a tonnage of 3,500 kg or more; driver of class B2 pulling trailers (FB2);
d) Persons aged full 24 years or older may drive passenger cars with between 10 and 30 seats; Class C drivers pulling trailers and semi-trailers (FC);
dd) Persons aged full 27 years or older may drive passenger cars with over 30 seats; Class D drivers towing trailers (FD);
e) The maximum age of drivers of passenger cars with over 30 seats is 50 years old for women and 55 years old for men.
2. The driver must have health suitable for the vehicle type and use of the vehicle. The Minister of Health shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Minister of Transport in, stipulating health standards for drivers, periodical medical examinations for car drivers and regulations on medical facilities. medical examination of the driver .
Article 61. Driver training, testing for issuance of driving licenses
1. A driver training institution is a type of vocational training institution that must satisfy all conditions for classes, driving training ground, driving practice vehicle, teaching staff, textbooks and lesson plans, and must be licensed according to regulations. regulations.
2. Driver training institutions must strictly comply with the contents and programs prescribed for each type and class of driver's license.
3. Persons who wish to be granted A1, A2, A3, A4, B1 class driver licenses must be trained. Persons who wish to be granted B2, C, D, E and F class driver licenses must be trained at a training institution.
4. The training to upgrade the driver's license is carried out for the following cases:
a) Upgrade the driver's license from class B1 to class B2;
b) Upgrade your driving license from class B2 to class C or to class D;
c) Upgrade your driving license from class C to class D or to class E;
d) Upgrade the driver's license from class D to class E;
dd) Upgrade the driver's license from classes B2, C, D, E to the license classes of corresponding vehicles with trailers and semi-trailers.
5 . Persons who wish to be trained to upgrade their driving license as prescribed in Clause 4 of this Article must also have enough time and number of safe driving kilometers prescribed for each class of driving license; Persons wishing to be trained to upgrade their driver's license to Class D or E must have at least a lower secondary education level.
6. The training to drive passenger cars with 10 seats or more and to drive trailers can only be carried out in the form of upgrading training with the conditions specified in Clauses 4 and 5 of this Article.
7. The test for the issuance of a driving license must be carried out at the driving test centers. The driving test centers must be built according to the planning, have enough material and technical foundations to meet the requirements of the driving test as prescribed.
8. The person taking the driving test must have a driver's license card as prescribed and take responsibility for his or her test results.
9. Those who have been trained and passed the test will be granted a driving license in the correct class. 
In case the driver's license has a term, before the expiry date of the driver's license, the driver must have a medical examination and follow the prescribed procedures to change the driving license.
10. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe conditions, standards and grant licenses to training institutions; prescribe the form, content and training program; testing and granting, changing and revoking driving licenses; The Minister of National Defense and the Minister of Public Security shall stipulate training establishments, organization of training, testing and grant, exchange and revocation of driving licenses for military and police forces performing national defense duties. , security.
Article 62. Conditions for drivers of special-use motorbikes participating in traffic
1. Drivers of special-use motorcycles participating in traffic must be of age and health suitable for their professions and have a certificate of training in road traffic law knowledge, a license or certificate of vehicle operation. special-use machines issued by training institutions for special-use motorbike drivers.
2. Drivers of special-use motorbikes must carry them when participating in traffic the following documents:
a) Vehicle registration;
b) Certificate of training in legal knowledge on road traffic, license or certificate of operating special-use motorcycles;
c) Certificate of inspection of technical safety and environmental protection for special-use motorcycles specified in Article 57 of this Law .
Article 63. Conditions of rudimentary vehicle drivers participating in traffic
1. Having health to ensure safe vehicle driving.
2. Understanding road traffic rules.
CHAPTER VI
TRUCKING
Section 1. ROAD TRANSPORTATION ACTIVITIES
Article 64. Road transport activities
1. Road transport activities include non-commercial transport activities and road transport business activities. Road transport business is a conditional business line as prescribed by law.
2. Road transport business includes passenger transport business and cargo transport business.
3. Road transport activities must conform to the road transport planning and the network of transport routes.
Article 65. Working time of car drivers
1. The working time of a car driver must not exceed 10 hours in a day and must not drive continuously for more than 4 hours.
2. The transporter and the auto driver are responsible for complying with the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 66. Transport business by car
1. Passenger transport business by car includes:
a) Passenger transport business along fixed routes with definite departure and arrival terminals with certain schedules and itineraries;
b) Business passenger transport by bus along fixed routes with stops for pick-up and drop-off and vehicles running according to the operating chart with a certain distance and scope of operation;
c) Passenger transport business by taxi with schedules and itineraries at the request of passengers; charge according to the meter;
d) Passenger transport business under contract, not along fixed route is performed under transport contract;
dd) Tourist transport business according to tourist routes, programs and locations.
2. Cargo transportation business includes:
a) Normal cargo transportation business;
b) Transporting goods by taxi trucks;
c) Transporting super-long and super-heavy goods;
d) Transporting dangerous goods.
3. The Government shall specify the transport business by car .
Article 67. Conditions for automobile transport business
1. Enterprises, cooperatives and business households engaged in transport business by auto must fully satisfy the following conditions:
a) Registering for transport business by car according to the provisions of law;
b) Ensure the quantity, quality and useful life of the vehicles are suitable for the business form; means of transport business must be fitted with a device to monitor the vehicle's journey according to the Government's regulations;
c) Ensure that the number of drivers and service personnel on the vehicle is consistent with the business plan and must have a written labor contract; service personnel on the vehicle must be trained in transport business and traffic safety; not use drivers who are banned from practicing as prescribed by law;
d) Persons directly managing transport activities of enterprises or cooperatives must have professional qualifications in transport;
dd) Having a parking space suitable to the size of the enterprise, cooperative or business household, ensuring the requirements for order, safety, fire prevention and fighting and environmental sanitation.
2. Only enterprises and cooperatives may conduct passenger transport business along fixed routes, conduct passenger transport business by bus or taxi and must fully satisfy the following conditions:
a) The conditions specified in Clause 1 of this Article;
b) Having a department to manage traffic safety conditions;
c) Register the quality standards of passenger transport services with the competent authorities and publicly post them up.
3. Only enterprises and cooperatives may do business in transporting goods by containers and must fully satisfy the conditions specified in Clauses 1 and b, Clause 2 of this Article.
4. The Government shall specify the conditions and grant of transport business licenses by auto .
Article 68. Passenger transport by car
1. Transporters and drivers of passenger cars must comply with the following regulations:
a) Pick up and drop off passengers at the prescribed places;
b) Do not carry passengers on the roof, in the luggage compartment or let the passengers swing or cling to the outside of the vehicle;
c) Do not carry dangerous goods, goods with stench or animals and other goods that affect the health of passengers;
d) Do not carry passengers, luggage or goods exceeding the prescribed weight and number of people;
e) Do not leave goods in the passenger compartment; Take measures to keep the car clean. 
2. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe the organization and management of passenger transport by car.
Article 69. Rights and obligations of passenger transport dealers
1. Passenger transport dealers have the following rights:
a) Collect freight and transport charges;
b) Refusing to transport before the vehicle leaves the bus station, picks up or drops off passengers under the contract of carriage of those who already have tickets or the person on the contract list commits acts of disturbing public order, obstructing the work of transport business people, affecting the health and property of others, cheating on tickets or passengers suffering from dangerous diseases.
2. Passenger transport dealers have the following obligations:
a) Fully fulfill commitments on transport quality and transport contracts;
b) Buy insurance for passengers; insurance premiums are included in the passenger fare;
c) Deliver tickets and receipts of freight and transport charges to passengers;
d) Compensate for damage caused by employees or representatives while performing tasks assigned by transport dealers;
dd) Take responsibility for the consequences caused by employees or representatives due to the fulfillment of requests of transport dealers in contravention of this Law.
3. The Minister of Finance shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Minister of Transport in, stipulating tickets and receipts for the collection of freight and passenger transport charges.
Article 70. Responsibilities of drivers and service staff on passenger cars
1. Check the vehicle's safety conditions before departure.
2. Have a civilized and polite attitude and guide passengers to sit in the right places.
3. Check the arrangement and fastening of luggage and goods to ensure safety.
4. Take measures to protect the life, health and property of passengers riding, maintain order and hygiene in the vehicle.
5. Close the doors of the vehicle before and while the vehicle is in motion.
Article 71. Rights and obligations of passengers
1. Passengers have the following rights:
a) To be transported in accordance with the transport contract and the transport dealer's commitment on transport quality;
b) Free baggage allowance with a weight not exceeding 20 kg and with dimensions suitable to the vehicle's design;
c) To be denied the trip before the vehicle departs and have the fare refunded according to the regulations of the Minister of Transport.
2. Passengers have the following obligations:
a) Buy tickets and pay freight and transport fees for excess baggage;
b) Be present at the place of departure at the agreed time; comply with regulations on transportation; strictly follow the instructions of the driver, the service staff on the vehicle on the regulations to ensure traffic order and safety;
c) Do not carry luggage or goods prohibited by law from circulation.
Article 72. Transport of goods by car
1. Cargo transportation must comply with the following regulations:
a) Cargo transported on vehicles must be neatly arranged and securely tied;
b) When transporting bulk cargo, it must be covered to prevent spillage.
2. Not to perform the following acts:
a) Carrying goods in excess of the designed tonnage and the permissible limit of the vehicle;
b) Carrying people in the trunk, except for the case specified in Clause 1, Article 21 of this Law .
3. The Minister of Transport shall stipulate the organization and management of goods transport by car.
Article 73. Rights and obligations of goods transport dealers
1. Goods transport dealers have the following rights:
a) Request the transport charterer to provide necessary information about the goods to write in the transport paper and have the right to check the authenticity of such information;
b) Request the transport hirer to fully pay the freight, transportation charges and incurred costs; request the transport charterer to compensate for damage caused by the breach of the agreement in the contract;
c) Refuse to transport if the charterer fails to deliver the goods as agreed in the contract;
d) Request goods inspection when necessary.
2. Goods transport dealers have the following obligations:
a) Provide vehicles of the right type, time and place and deliver the goods to the consignee as agreed in the contract;
b) Instructions for loading and unloading goods on vehicles;
c) Compensation for damage to the transport hirer due to loss or damage of goods occurring during the transportation from the time of receipt of goods to the time of delivery, except for cases of exemption from compensation for damage as prescribed by law;
d) Compensate for damage caused by employees or representatives while performing tasks assigned by transport dealers;
dd) Take responsibility for the consequences caused by employees or representatives due to the fulfillment of requests of transport dealers in contravention of this Law.
3. The Government shall prescribe the limitation of liability of goods transport business people.
Article 74. Rights and obligations of freight hirers
1. The freight charterer has the following rights:
a) Refusing to load goods onto a vehicle that is not as agreed in the contract;
b) Request the transport dealer to deliver the goods at the time and place agreed upon in the contract;
c) Request the transport business person to compensate for damage according to the provisions of law.
2. The freight charterer has the following obligations:
a) Prepare all legal papers on goods before delivering the goods to the transport dealer; pack the goods properly, write the symbols and codes of goods fully and clearly; deliver the goods to the transport dealer at the right time, place and other contents stated in the consignment note;
b) Make full payment of freight, transportation charges and incurred expenses to the goods transport dealer;
c) Appointing people to escort goods during transportation for goods requiring escorts.
Article 75. Rights and obligations of the consignee
1. The consignee has the following rights:
a) Receive and inspect the goods received according to the shipping document or other equivalent document;
b) Request the transport dealer to pay the costs incurred due to late delivery;
c) Request or notify the transport charterer to request the transport dealer to compensate for damage caused by the loss or damage of goods;
d) Request goods inspection when necessary.
2. The consignee has the following obligations:
a) Receive the goods at the agreed time and place; present the transport paper and identification documents to the transport dealer before receiving the goods;
b) Payment of expenses incurred due to late receipt of goods.
Article 76. Transport of extra-long and super-heavy goods
1. Super-long and super-heavy goods are goods whose size or weight exceeds the specified limit but cannot be disassembled.
2. The transportation of extra-long and super-heavy goods must be carried out using a transport vehicle suitable to the type of cargo and must have a road use permit issued by a competent state agency.
3. Vehicles transporting extra-long and super-heavy goods must run at the speed specified in the permit and must have a signal on the size of the cargo. In case of necessity, arrange a traffic guide to ensure traffic safety. .
4. The Minister of Transport shall provide specific regulations on the transportation of extra-long and super-heavy goods.
Article 77. Transport of live animals
1. Depending on the type of live animal, the transport business person requires the transport charterer to arrange an escort to take care of during the transport.
2. The transport hirer is responsible for the loading and unloading of live animals according to the instructions of the transport dealer; in case the transport hirer is unable to do so, he/she must pay the freight and loading and unloading charges to the transport dealer.
3. The transportation of live animals on the road must comply with the provisions of the law on hygiene, epidemic prevention and environmental protection.
Article 78. Transport of dangerous goods
1. Vehicles transporting dangerous goods must have a license issued by a competent state agency.
2. Vehicles transporting dangerous goods must not stop or park in crowded places or places prone to danger.
3. The Government shall prescribe the List of dangerous goods, the transport of dangerous goods and the competence to grant permits for the transport of dangerous goods.
Article 79. Road transport activities in urban areas
1. Buses must run on the right route, on schedule, and stop and park at the right places.
2. Drivers of passenger taxis and truck taxis pick up and drop off passengers and goods as agreed between passengers, goods owners and drivers, but must comply with regulations on traffic safety assurance.
3. Cargo trucks must operate according to the correct route, scope and time specified for each type of vehicle.
4. Environmental sanitation vehicles, cars carrying waste and loose materials must be covered to prevent them from falling or scattering on the street; In case of dropping or spilling, the carrier must be responsible for cleaning up immediately.
5. Provincial-level People's Committees shall specify road transport activities in urban areas and the proportion of passenger transport vehicles that meet the travel needs of people with disabilities.
Article 80. Transport of passengers and goods by rudimentary vehicles, mopeds, two-wheeled motorcycles, three-wheeled motorcycles and similar vehicles
1. The use of rudimentary vehicles, mopeds, two-wheeled motorbikes, three-wheeled motorcycles and similar vehicles to transport passengers and goods must comply with regulations on traffic order and safety. pine.
2. The Minister of Transport shall prescribe the implementation of Clause 1 of this Article.
3. Pursuant to regulations of the Minister of Transport, the People's Committee of the province shall specify the organization of implementation in the locality.
Article 81. Multimodal transport
1. Multimodal transport specified in this Law is the transportation of goods from the place of receipt to the place of delivery to the consignee by at least two modes of transport, including road transport. set on the basis of a multimodal transport contract.
2. The Government shall make specific regulations on multimodal transport.
Section 2. LAND TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES
Article 82. Road transport support services
1. Transportation support service Road including services at bus stations, parking lots, rest stops, transportation agents, ticket agents, goods collection services, transshipment services, warehouse services, trucking rescue services.
2. The Minister of Transport shall provide specific regulations on road transport support services.
Article 83. Organization of operation of car stations, parking lots and rest stops
1. The operation of passenger car stations, cargo car terminals, parking lots and rest stops must ensure order, safety, environmental sanitation, fire prevention and fighting, and are under the management of the agency. local competent authorities.
2. Enterprises and cooperatives operating passenger bus stations have the right and obligation to arrange ticket sales or organize ticket sales for passengers under contracts with transport dealers; arrange automobiles that are qualified for transportation business to the station to pick up and drop off passengers on the right route.
3. Enterprises and cooperatives operating cargo bus terminals have the right and obligation to arrange cars at the terminal for loading and unloading goods, providing warehousing services, consignment, packing and preserving goods.
4. Enterprises and cooperatives that operate parking lots have the right and obligation to organize vehicle maintenance services.
5. Enterprises and cooperatives operating roadside stations have the right and obligation to organize services to serve people and vehicles participating in road traffic; perform the work under the entrustment contract with the carrier.
6. Provincial-level People's Committees shall base themselves on the type of car station to determine the price of car service in and out of the car station.
CHAPTER VII
STATE MANAGEMENT OF ROAD TRAFFIC
Article 84. Contents of state management of road traffic
1. Formulating master plans, plans and policies on road traffic development; formulating and directing the implementation of the national program on road traffic safety. 
2. Promulgating and organizing the implementation of legal documents on road traffic; road traffic regulations and standards.
3. Propagating, disseminating and educating the law on road traffic.
4. Organize the management, maintenance and protection of road traffic infrastructure.
5. Registration, issue and withdrawal of number plates of road vehicles; issue and revoke certificates of quality, technical safety and environmental protection of road vehicles.
6. Management of driver training and testing; issue, change and revoke driving licenses, certificates of training in law knowledge on road traffic
7. Management of transportation activities and transport support services; road traffic rescue organization.
8. Organize research and application of science and technology on road traffic; training staff and technical workers in road traffic.
9. Examination, inspection, settlement of complaints and denunciations; handle violations of the law on road traffic.
10. International cooperation on road traffic.
Article 85. Responsibilities for state management of road traffic
1. The Government performs the unified state management of road traffic.
2. The Ministry of Transport is responsible to the Government for performing the state management of road traffic.
3. The Ministry of Public Security shall perform the tasks of state management of road traffic according to the provisions of this Law and other relevant laws; take measures to ensure traffic order and safety; coordinate with the Ministry of Transport to protect road traffic infrastructure.
The Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Transport are responsible for coordinating in providing road vehicle registration data, traffic accident data, and granting, changing and revoking driving licenses.
4. The Ministry of National Defense shall perform the tasks of state management of road traffic according to the provisions of this Law and other relevant laws.
5. Ministries and ministerial-level agencies shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, coordinate with the Ministry of Transport in performing the state management of road traffic.
6. People's Committees at all levels shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, organize the performance of state management of road traffic in accordance with this Law and other relevant law provisions within the scope of their respective duties and powers. local micro.
Article 86. Road inspection
1. Road inspectors perform the function of specialized inspection of road traffic.
2. Road inspectors have the following tasks and powers:
a) Inspect, detect, prevent and sanction administrative violations in the observance of law provisions on protection of road traffic infrastructure, ensuring technical standards of road works. ; In urgent cases, in order to promptly prevent possible consequences for road works, it is allowed to stop means of transport and request vehicle drivers to take measures to protect works according to regulations. prescribed by law and must take responsibility for that decision;
b) Inspecting, detecting, preventing and sanctioning administrative violations in the observance of regulations on transport activities and transport support services at car stops, parking on roads and bus stations. , parking lots, rest stops, vehicle load checking stations, toll stations and at road transport business establishments;
c) Inspect, detect, prevent and sanction administrative violations in the training, testing, granting, exchange and revocation of road motor vehicle driving licenses, technical safety inspection and maintenance activities. environmental protection for motor vehicles. The inspection, training, testing, granting, changing and revocation of driving licenses of the army and police forces shall be prescribed by the Minister of National Defense and the Minister of Public Security;
d) Perform other tasks and exercise other powers as prescribed by the law on inspection.
3. The organization and operation of the road inspectorate shall comply with the provisions of this Law and the law on inspection.
The Minister of Transport shall specify the tasks and powers of the Road Inspector.
Article 87. Patrol and control of the road traffic police
1. The road traffic police shall patrol and control to control people and vehicles participating in road traffic; handle violations of the law on road traffic by people and vehicles participating in road traffic and take responsibility before law for their decisions ; coordinate with road management agencies in detecting and preventing violations of regulations on protection of road works and road safety corridors.
2. The Minister of Public Security shall specify the tasks, powers, forms and contents of patrol and control of the road traffic police.
3. The Government shall prescribe the mobilization of other police forces and the commune police to coordinate with the road traffic police in patrolling and controlling road traffic order and safety in case of necessity.
CHAPTER VIII
TERMS ENFORCEMENT
Article 88. Effect
1. This Law takes effect from July 1, 2009.
2. This Law replaces the Law on Road Traffic dated June 29, 2001.
Article 89. Detailed regulations and implementation guidelines
The Government and competent agencies shall detail and guide the implementation of articles and clauses assigned in the Law; guide other necessary contents of this Law to meet state management requirements.
This Law was approved by the 12th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 4th session on November 13, 2008.
 
 	Chairman of the National Assembly 




Nguyen Phu Trong
 
